.\" (C) Copyright 2017 Intel Corporation.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" GOVERNMENT LICENSE RIGHTS-OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE
.\" The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display,
.\" or disclose this software are subject to the terms of the Apache License as
.\" provided in Contract No. B609815.
.\" Any reproduction of computer software, computer software documentation, or
.\" portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.
.\"
.TH daos_init 3 2017-07-17 "0.0.1" "DAOS Client API"
.SH NAME
daos_init \- prepare the DAOS client library for use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <daos_api.h>
.sp
.BI "int daos_init(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR daos_init ()
initializes the DAOS library.  It creates data structures, threads,
and communication interfaces used by subsequent library calls.  The
.BR daos_init ()
function must be called prior to all other DAOS client library functions.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function
.BR daos_init ()
returns zero on success or an error number upon error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DER_ALREADY
Library has already been initialized.
.TP
.B -1
If the debug logging infrastructure can not be initialized.
.TP
.B TBD
Finish this section when the error codes have been cleaned up.  They are
currently pretty hard to track down.
.SH CONFORMING TO
TBD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR daos_fini (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 0.0.1 of the Distributed Asynchronous
Object Storage (DAOS) exascale storage project. The project git reposity
can be found at:
\%https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git
Bugs can be reported at:
\%https://jira.hpdd.intel.com/projects/DAOS/.
