.\" (C) Copyright 2015, 2016, 2017 Intel Corporation.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" GOVERNMENT LICENSE RIGHTS-OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE
.\" The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display,
.\" or disclose this software are subject to the terms of the Apache License as
.\" provided in Contract No. B609815.
.\" Any reproduction of computer software, computer software documentation, or
.\" portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.
.\"
.TH daos_fini 3 2017-07-17 "0.0.1" "DAOS Client API"
.SH NAME
daos_fini \- release resources used by the DAOS client library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <daos_api.h>
.sp
.BI "int daos_fini(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR daos_fini ()
finalizes the DAOS library.  It releases resources the library acquired
during initialization and subsequent library calls.  No other DAOS
library function calls can be made after a call to
.BR daos_fini ()
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function
.BR daos_fini ()
returns zero on success or an error number upon error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DER_UNINIT
Library is already in a finalized state.
.TP
.TP
.B TODO
There are many more potential return codes but they are hard to track down.
.SH CONFORMING TO
TBD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR daos_fini (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the Distributed Asynchronous Object Storage (DAOS)
exascale storage project. The project git reposity
can be found at:
\%https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git
Bugs can be reported at:
\%https://jira.hpdd.intel.com/projects/DAOS/.
