docs/overview/data_integrity.md, before:

# Data Integrity

DAOS uses checksums internally to discover silent data corruption. While each
component in a system (network layer, storage devices) may offer protection
against silent data corruption, DAOS provides end-to-end data integrity to
better protect user data. If silent data corruption is detected, DAOS will
attempt to recover the corrupted data using data redundancy mechanisms
(Replication or Erasure Code).

## End-to-end Data Integrity

In simple terms, end-to-end means that the DAOS Client library will calculate a
checksum for data that is being sent to the DAOS Server. The DAOS Server will
store the checksum and return it upon data retrieval. Then the client verifies
the data by calculating a new checksum and comparing to the checksum received
from the server. There are variations on this approach depending on the type of
data being protected, but the following diagram shows the basic checksum flow.
![Basic Checksum Flow](../graph/data_integrity/basic_checksum_flow.png)

## Configuring

Data integrity is configured for each container.
See [Storage Model](./storage.md) for more information about how data is
organized in DAOS. See the Data Integrity in
the [Container User Guide](../user/container.md#data-integrity) for details on
how to setup a container with data integrity.

## Keys and Value Objects

Because DAOS is a key/value store, the data for both keys and values is
protected, however, the approach is slightly different. For the two different
value types, single and array, the approach is also slightly different.

### Keys
On an update and fetch, the client calculates a checksum for the data used
as the distribution and attribute keys and will send it to the server within the
RPC. The server verifies the keys with the checksum.
While enumerating keys, the server will calculate checksums for the keys and
pack within the RPC message to the client. The client will verify the keys
received.

!!! note
Checksums for keys are not stored on the server. A hash of the key is
calculated and used to index the key in the server tree of the keys
(see [VOS Key Array Stores](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md#key-array-stores)).
It is also expected that keys are stored only in Storage Class Memory which
has reliable data integrity protection.

### Values
On an update, the client will calculate a checksum for the data of the value and
will send it to the server within the RPC. If "server verify" is enabled, the
server will calculate a new checksum for the value and compare with the checksum
received from the client to verify the integrity of the value. If the checksums
don't match, then data corruption has occurred and an error is returned to the
client indicating that the client should try the update again. Whether "server
verify" is enabled or not, the server will store the checksum.
See [VOS](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md)
for more info about checksum management and storage in VOS.

On a fetch, the server will return the stored checksum to the client with the
values fetched so the client can verify the values received. If the checksums
don't match, then the client will fetch from another replica if available in
an attempt to get uncorrupted data.

There are some slight variations to this approach for the two different types
of values. The following diagram illustrates a basic example.
(See [Storage Model](storage.md) for more details about the single value
and array value types)

![Basic Checksum Flow](../graph/data_integrity/basic_checksum_flow.png)

#### Single Value
A Single Value is an atomic value, meaning that writes to a single value will
update the entire value and reads retrieve the entire value. Other DAOS features
such as Erasure Codes might split a Single Value into multiple shards to be
distributed among multiple storage nodes. Either the whole Single Value (if
going to a single node) or each shard (if distributed) will have a checksum
calculated, sent to the server, and stored on the server.

Note that it is possible for a single value, or shard of a single value, to
be smaller than the checksum derived from it. It is advised that if an
application needs many small single values to use an Array Type instead.

#### Array Values
Unlike Single Values, Array Values can be updated and fetched at any part of
an array. In addition, updates to an array are versioned, so a fetch can include
parts from multiple versions of the array. Each of these versioned parts of an
array are called extents. The following diagrams illustrate a couple examples
(also see [VOS Key Array Stores](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md#key-array-stores) for
more information):


A single extent update (blue line) from index 2-13. A fetched extent (orange
line) from index 2-6. The fetch is only part of the original extent written.

![](../graph/data_integrity/array_example_1.png)


Many extent updates and different epochs. A fetch from index 2-13 requires parts
from each extent.

![Array Example 2](../graph/data_integrity/array_example_2.png)


The nature of the array type requires that a more sophisticated approach to
creating checksums is used. DAOS uses a "chunking" approach where each extent
will be broken up into "chunks" with a predetermined "chunk size." Checksums
will be derived from these chunks. Chunks are aligned with an absolute offset
(starting at 0), not an I/O offset. The following diagram illustrates a chunk
size configured to be 4 (units is arbitrary in this example). Though not all
chunks have a full size of 4, an  absolute offset alignment is maintained.
The gray boxes around the extents represent the chunks.

![](../graph/data_integrity/array_with_chunks.png)

(
See [Object Layer](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/object/README.md)
for more details about the checksum process on object update and fetch)

## Checksum calculations
The actual checksum calculations are done by the
[isa-l](https://github.com/intel/isa-l)
and [isa-l_crypto](https://github.com/intel/isa-l_crypto) libraries. However,
these libraries are abstracted away from much of DAOS and a common checksum
library is used with appropriate adapters to the actual isa-l implementations.
[common checksum library](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/common/README.md#checksum)

## Performance Impact
Calculating checksums can be CPU intensive and will impact performance. To
mitigate performance impact, checksum types with hardware acceleration should
be chosen. For example, CRC32C is supported by recent Intel CPUs, and many are
accelerated via SIMD.

## Quality
Unit and functional testing is performed at many layers.

| Test executable   | What's tested | Key test files |
| --- | --- | --- |
| common_test | daos_csummer, utility functions to help with chunk alignment  | src/common/tests/checksum_tests.c |
| vos_test | vos_obj_update/fetch apis with checksum params to ensure updating and fetching checksums | src/vos/tests/vts_checksum.c |
| srv_checksum_tests | Server side logic for adding fetched checksums to an array request. Checksums are appropriately copied or created depending on extent layout. | src/object/tests/srv_checksum_tests.c |
| daos_test | daos_obj_update/fetch with checksums enabled. The -z flag can be used for specific checksum tests. Also --csum_type flag can be used to enable  checksums with any of the other daos_tests | src/tests/suite/daos_checksum.c |

### Running Tests
**With daos_server not running**

```
./commont_test
./vos_test -z
./srv_checksum_tests
./pool_scrubbing_tests
```
**With daos_server running**
```
export DAOS_CSUM_TEST_ALL_TYPE=1
./daos_server -z
./daos_server -i --csum_type crc64
```

---

# Checksum Scrubbing (In Development)
A background task will scan (when the storage server is idle to limit
performance impact) the Version Object Store (VOS) trees to verify the data
integrity with the checksums. Corrective actions can be taken when corruption is
detected. See [Corrective Actions](#corrective-actions)

## (Not Implemented) Scanner
### Goals/Requirements
- **Detect Silent Data Corruption Proactively** - The whole point of the
  scrubber is to detect silent data corruption before it is fetched.
- **Minimize CPU and I/O Bandwidth** - Checksum scrubbing scanner will impact
  CPU and the I/O bandwidth because it must iterate the VOS tree (I/O to SCM)
  fetch data (I/O to SSD) and calculate checksums (CPU intensive). To minimize
  both of these impacts, the server scheduler must be able to throttled the
  scrubber's I/O and CPU usage.
- **Continuous** - The background task will be a continuous processes instead of
  running on a schedule. Once complete immediately start over. Throttling
  approaches should prevent from scrubbing same objects too frequently.

### High Level Design
- Per Pool ULT (I/O xstream) that will iterate containers. If checksums and
  scrubber is enabled then iterate the object tree. If a record value (SV or
  array) is not marked corrupted then scan.
  - Fetch the data.
  - Create new ULTs (helper xstream) to calculate checksum for data
  - Compare calculated checksum with stored checksum.
  - After every checksum is calculated, determine if need to
    [sleep or yield](#sleep-or-yield).
  - If checksums don't match confirm record is still there (not deleted by
    aggregation) then update record as corrupted
- After each object scanned yield to allow the server scheduler to reschedule
  the next appropriate I/O.

#### Sleep or Yield
Sleep for sufficient amount of time to ensure that scanning completes no sooner
than configured interval (i.e. once a week or month). For example, if the
interval is 1 week and there are 70 checksums that need to be calculated, then
at a maximum 10 checksums are calculated a day, spaced roughly every 2.4 hours.
If it doesn't need to sleep, then it will yield to allow the server scheduler to
prioritize other jobs.

## Corrective Actions
There are two main options for corrective actions when data corruption is
discovered, in place data repair and SSD eviction.

### In Place Data Repair
If enabled, when corruption is detected, the value identifier (dkey, akey, recx)
will be placed in a queue. When there are available cycles, the value identifier
will be used to request the data from a replica if exists and rewrite the data
locally. This will continue until the SSD Eviction threshold is reached, in
which case, the SSD is assumed to be bad enough that it isn't worth fixing
locally and it will be requested to be evicted.

### SSD Eviction
If enabled, when the SSD Eviction Threshold is reached the SSD will be evicted.
Current eviction methods are pool and target based so there will need to be a
mapping and mechanism in place to evict an SSD. When an SSD is evicted, the
rebuild protocol will be invoked.

Also, once the SSD Eviction Threshold is reached, the scanner should quit
scanning anything on that SSD.

## Additional Checksum Properties
### Pool Properties (-> doc/admin/pool_operations.md, src/control/lib/control/pool_property.go)
These properties are provided when a pool is created, but should
also be able to update them. When updated, they should be active right away.

- **Pool Scrubber Mode** - How the scrubber will run for each pool target. The
  container configuration can disable scrubbing for the container, but it cannot
  alter the mode.
    - **OFF** - The Scrubber will not run.
    - **Run & Wait** - Will run the scrubber to completion, yielding after
      consuming configured "credits". Then, if completed before configured
      frequency, will sleep until it's time to start again.
    - **Continuous** - Will run the scanner, sleeping in between object scrubs so
      that the duration of the scrubber takes whole frequency time and will
      start again as soon as it completes. Knowing how many objects are in the
      system is required for this approach to work. The scrubber will use the
      previous scrubber count of objects as best guess for current.
    - **Run Once** - Run the scrubber once then turn off. Useful for better
      control by external scripts to control the schedule. Will still yield after
      consuming "credits".
- **Pool Scrubber Frequency** - How frequently the scrubber should run in
  number of seconds. If a scan takes longer than frequency, it would start
  again as soon as the previous scan completes.
- **Pool Credits** - Number of credits consumed before the scrubber yields. Each
  time a checksum is calculated to verify object data, a credit is consumed.
- **In Place Correction** - If the number checksum errors is below the Eviction
  Threshold, DAOS will attempt to repair the corrupted data using replicas if
  they exist.

The command to create a pool with scrubbing enabled might look like this:
```bash
dmg pool create --scm-size 1G --properties=scrub:continuous,scrub-freq:1,scrub-cred:10
# or
dmg pool create --scm-size 1G
dmg pool set-prop ${POOL} --properties=scrub:run_wait
```

### Container Properties (-> doc/user/container.md)
- **Container Disable Scrubbing** - If scrubbing is enabled for a pool, a
  container can disable it for itself.

### Server Config (-> utils/config/daos_server.yml)
- **Engine SSD Eviction Threshold** - number of distinct silent data corruption
  events. When a target hits the threshold its corresponding NVMe storage device
  will be evicted. (Note this is not a pool or container property. It will be
  configured in the server.yaml configuration file. If this value is 0, then SSD
  Auto Eviction will not occur. - Default: 10

## Telemetry
The following telemetry metrics are gathered and can be reported for better
understanding of how the scrubber is running. They will be gathered at both the
pool and container level, with the exception of the Scrubber ULT Start.
### Schedule
- Scrubber ULT Start - datetime the scrubber service started
- Scrubber Current Start - datetime the current scrubbing job started
- Last Duration - how long the last scrubber took to run to completion.
### Checksum Calculated Counts
- Total Checksum Count - Total number of checksums calculated over the life
  of the scrubber.
- Last Checksum Count - number of checksums calculated during last scrubber job
- Current Checksum Count - number of checksums calculated so far for the
  current scrubber job
### Silent Data Corruption Counts
- Total Silent Data Corruption - Total number of silent data corruption
  found while scrubbing object values.
- Current Silent Data Corruption - number of silent data corruption found so far
  for the current scrubber job


## Design Details & Implementation

### Pool ULT
The code for the pool ULT is found in `srv_pool_scrub.c`. It can be a bit
difficult to follow because there are several layers of callback functions due
to the nature of how ULTs and the vos_iterator work, but the file is organized
such that functions typically call the function above it (either directly or
indirectly as a callback). For example (~> is an indirect call, -> is a direct
call):

```
ds_start_scrubbing_ult ~> scrubbing_ult -> scrub_pool ~> cont_iter_scrub_cb ->
    scrub_cont ~> obj_iter_scrub_cb ...
```

### VOS Layer
- In order to mark data as corrupted a flag field is added to bio_addr_t which
  includes a CORRUPTED bit.
- The vos update api already accepts a flag, so a CORRUPTED flag is added and
  handled during an update so that, if set, the bio address will be updated to
  be corrupted. (Documented in src/vos/README.md)
- On fetch, if a value is already marked corrupted, return -DER_CSUM

### Object Layer
- When corruption is detected on the server during a fetch, aggregation, or
  rebuild the server calls VOS to update value as corrupted.
- (TBD) Add Server Side Verifying on fetch so can know if media or network
  corruption (note: need something so extents aren't double verified?)

## Testing
- pool_scrubbing_tests
- Add scrubbing status to daos_pool_info_t so it can be queried


## Debugging
- In the server.yml configuration file set the following env_vars
```
- D_LOG_MASK=DEBUG
- DD_SUBSYS=pool
- DD_MASK=csum
```

Commit message:

DAOS-8764 csum: Update to Scrubber Pool Properties
Changed scrub schedule to scrub mode and values are now 'lazy' and
'timed' instead of wait and continuous. Check for xstream is busy
if in lazy mode.

Simplified the 'scheduling' and timing of the scrubber. Removed
unnecessary test suite.

Signed-off-by: Ryon Jensen <ryon.jensen@intel.com>

docs/overview/data_integrity.md, after:

# Data Integrity

DAOS uses checksums internally to discover silent data corruption. While each
component in a system (network layer, storage devices) may offer protection
against silent data corruption, DAOS provides end-to-end data integrity to
better protect user data. If silent data corruption is detected, DAOS will
attempt to recover the corrupted data using data redundancy mechanisms
(Replication or Erasure Code).

## End-to-end Data Integrity

In simple terms, end-to-end means that the DAOS Client library will calculate a
checksum for data that is being sent to the DAOS Server. The DAOS Server will
store the checksum and return it upon data retrieval. Then the client verifies
the data by calculating a new checksum and comparing to the checksum received
from the server. There are variations on this approach depending on the type of
data being protected, but the following diagram shows the basic checksum flow.
![Basic Checksum Flow](../graph/data_integrity/basic_checksum_flow.png)

## Configuring

Data integrity is configured for each container.
See [Storage Model](./storage.md) for more information about how data is
organized in DAOS. See the Data Integrity in
the [Container User Guide](../user/container.md#data-integrity) for details on
how to setup a container with data integrity.

## Keys and Value Objects

Because DAOS is a key/value store, the data for both keys and values is
protected, however, the approach is slightly different. For the two different
value types, single and array, the approach is also slightly different.

### Keys
On an update and fetch, the client calculates a checksum for the data used
as the distribution and attribute keys and will send it to the server within the
RPC. The server verifies the keys with the checksum.
While enumerating keys, the server will calculate checksums for the keys and
pack within the RPC message to the client. The client will verify the keys
received.

!!! note
Checksums for keys are not stored on the server. A hash of the key is
calculated and used to index the key in the server tree of the keys
(see [VOS Key Array Stores](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md#key-array-stores)).
It is also expected that keys are stored only in Storage Class Memory which
has reliable data integrity protection.

### Values
On an update, the client will calculate a checksum for the data of the value and
will send it to the server within the RPC. If "server verify" is enabled, the
server will calculate a new checksum for the value and compare with the checksum
received from the client to verify the integrity of the value. If the checksums
don't match, then data corruption has occurred and an error is returned to the
client indicating that the client should try the update again. Whether "server
verify" is enabled or not, the server will store the checksum.
See [VOS](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md)
for more info about checksum management and storage in VOS.

On a fetch, the server will return the stored checksum to the client with the
values fetched so the client can verify the values received. If the checksums
don't match, then the client will fetch from another replica if available in
an attempt to get uncorrupted data.

There are some slight variations to this approach for the two different types
of values. The following diagram illustrates a basic example.
(See [Storage Model](storage.md) for more details about the single value
and array value types)

![Basic Checksum Flow](../graph/data_integrity/basic_checksum_flow.png)

#### Single Value
A Single Value is an atomic value, meaning that writes to a single value will
update the entire value and reads retrieve the entire value. Other DAOS features
such as Erasure Codes might split a Single Value into multiple shards to be
distributed among multiple storage nodes. Either the whole Single Value (if
going to a single node) or each shard (if distributed) will have a checksum
calculated, sent to the server, and stored on the server.

Note that it is possible for a single value, or shard of a single value, to
be smaller than the checksum derived from it. It is advised that if an
application needs many small single values to use an Array Type instead.

#### Array Values
Unlike Single Values, Array Values can be updated and fetched at any part of
an array. In addition, updates to an array are versioned, so a fetch can include
parts from multiple versions of the array. Each of these versioned parts of an
array are called extents. The following diagrams illustrate a couple examples
(also see [VOS Key Array Stores](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/vos/README.md#key-array-stores) for
more information):


A single extent update (blue line) from index 2-13. A fetched extent (orange
line) from index 2-6. The fetch is only part of the original extent written.

![](../graph/data_integrity/array_example_1.png)


Many extent updates and different epochs. A fetch from index 2-13 requires parts
from each extent.

![Array Example 2](../graph/data_integrity/array_example_2.png)


The nature of the array type requires that a more sophisticated approach to
creating checksums is used. DAOS uses a "chunking" approach where each extent
will be broken up into "chunks" with a predetermined "chunk size." Checksums
will be derived from these chunks. Chunks are aligned with an absolute offset
(starting at 0), not an I/O offset. The following diagram illustrates a chunk
size configured to be 4 (units is arbitrary in this example). Though not all
chunks have a full size of 4, an  absolute offset alignment is maintained.
The gray boxes around the extents represent the chunks.

![](../graph/data_integrity/array_with_chunks.png)

(
See [Object Layer](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/object/README.md)
for more details about the checksum process on object update and fetch)

## Checksum calculations
The actual checksum calculations are done by the
[isa-l](https://github.com/intel/isa-l)
and [isa-l_crypto](https://github.com/intel/isa-l_crypto) libraries. However,
these libraries are abstracted away from much of DAOS and a common checksum
library is used with appropriate adapters to the actual isa-l implementations.
[common checksum library](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/common/README.md#checksum)

## Performance Impact
Calculating checksums can be CPU intensive and will impact performance. To
mitigate performance impact, checksum types with hardware acceleration should
be chosen. For example, CRC32C is supported by recent Intel CPUs, and many are
accelerated via SIMD.

## Quality
Unit and functional testing is performed at many layers.

| Test executable   | What's tested | Key test files |
| --- | --- | --- |
| common_test | daos_csummer, utility functions to help with chunk alignment  | src/common/tests/checksum_tests.c |
| vos_test | vos_obj_update/fetch apis with checksum params to ensure updating and fetching checksums | src/vos/tests/vts_checksum.c |
| srv_checksum_tests | Server side logic for adding fetched checksums to an array request. Checksums are appropriately copied or created depending on extent layout. | src/object/tests/srv_checksum_tests.c |
| daos_test | daos_obj_update/fetch with checksums enabled. The -z flag can be used for specific checksum tests. Also --csum_type flag can be used to enable  checksums with any of the other daos_tests | src/tests/suite/daos_checksum.c |

### Running Tests
**With daos_server not running**

```
./commont_test
./vos_test -z
./srv_checksum_tests
./pool_scrubbing_tests
```
**With daos_server running**
```
export DAOS_CSUM_TEST_ALL_TYPE=1
./daos_server -z
./daos_server -i --csum_type crc64
```

---

# Checksum Scrubbing (In Development)
A background task will scan (when the storage server is idle to limit
performance impact) the Version Object Store (VOS) trees to verify the data
integrity with the checksums. Corrective actions can be taken when corruption is
detected. See [Corrective Actions](#corrective-actions)

## (Not Implemented) Scanner
### Goals/Requirements
- **Detect Silent Data Corruption Proactively** - The whole point of the
  scrubber is to detect silent data corruption before it is fetched.
- **Minimize CPU and I/O Bandwidth** - Checksum scrubbing scanner will impact
  CPU and the I/O bandwidth because it must iterate the VOS tree (I/O to SCM)
  fetch data (I/O to SSD) and calculate checksums (CPU intensive). To minimize
  both of these impacts, the server scheduler must be able to throttled the
  scrubber's I/O and CPU usage.
- **Continuous** - The background task will be a continuous processes instead of
  running on a schedule. Once complete immediately start over. Throttling
  approaches should prevent from scrubbing same objects too frequently.

### High Level Design
- Per Pool ULT (I/O xstream) that will iterate containers. If checksums and
  scrubber is enabled then iterate the object tree. If a record value (SV or
  array) is not marked corrupted then scan.
  - Fetch the data.
  - Create new ULTs (helper xstream) to calculate checksum for data
  - Compare calculated checksum with stored checksum.
  - After every checksum is calculated, determine if need to
    [sleep or yield](#sleep-or-yield).
  - If checksums don't match confirm record is still there (not deleted by
    aggregation) then update record as corrupted
- After each object scanned yield to allow the server scheduler to reschedule
  the next appropriate I/O.

#### Sleep or Yield
Sleep for sufficient amount of time to ensure that scanning completes no sooner
than configured interval (i.e. once a week or month). For example, if the
interval is 1 week and there are 70 checksums that need to be calculated, then
at a maximum 10 checksums are calculated a day, spaced roughly every 2.4 hours.
If it doesn't need to sleep, then it will yield to allow the server scheduler to
prioritize other jobs.

## Corrective Actions
There are two main options for corrective actions when data corruption is
discovered, in place data repair and SSD eviction.

### In Place Data Repair
If enabled, when corruption is detected, the value identifier (dkey, akey, recx)
will be placed in a queue. When there are available cycles, the value identifier
will be used to request the data from a replica if exists and rewrite the data
locally. This will continue until the SSD Eviction threshold is reached, in
which case, the SSD is assumed to be bad enough that it isn't worth fixing
locally and it will be requested to be evicted.

### SSD Eviction
If enabled, when the SSD Eviction Threshold is reached the SSD will be evicted.
Current eviction methods are pool and target based so there will need to be a
mapping and mechanism in place to evict an SSD. When an SSD is evicted, the
rebuild protocol will be invoked.

Also, once the SSD Eviction Threshold is reached, the scanner should quit
scanning anything on that SSD.

## Additional Checksum Properties
### Pool Properties (-> doc/admin/pool_operations.md, src/control/lib/control/pool_property.go)
These properties are provided when a pool is created, but should
also be able to update them. When updated, they should be active right away.

- **Pool Scrubber Mode** - How the scrubber will run for each pool target. The
  container configuration can disable scrubbing for the container, but it cannot
  alter the mode.
  - **OFF** - The Scrubber will not run.
  - **Lazy** - Trigger the scrubber only when there is no IO activity. Trigger
    aggregation regularly despite of IO activities.
  - **Timed** - Trigger the scrubber regularly despite IO activities.
- **Pool Scrubber Frequency** - How frequently the scrubber should scrub a pool.
  This value indicates the regularity of scrubbing activity when the Scrubber
  Mode is set to Timed.
- **Threshold** - Number of checksum errors when the pool target is evicted. A
  value of 0 disables auto eviction

The command to create a pool with scrubbing enabled might look like this:
```bash
dmg pool create --scm-size 1G --properties=scrub:lazy,scrub-freq:1
# or
dmg pool create --scm-size 1G
dmg pool set-prop ${POOL} --properties=scrub:timed
```

### Container Properties (-> doc/user/container.md)
- **Container Disable Scrubbing** - If scrubbing is enabled for a pool, a
  container can disable it for itself.

### Server Config (-> utils/config/daos_server.yml)
- **Engine SSD Eviction Threshold** - number of distinct silent data corruption
  events. When a target hits the threshold its corresponding NVMe storage device
  will be evicted. (Note this is not a pool or container property. It will be
  configured in the server.yaml configuration file. If this value is 0, then SSD
  Auto Eviction will not occur. - Default: 10

## Telemetry
The following telemetry metrics are gathered and can be reported for better
understanding of how the scrubber is running. They will be gathered at both the
pool and container level, with the exception of the Scrubber ULT Start.
### Schedule
- Scrubber ULT Start - datetime the scrubber service started
- Scrubber Current Start - datetime the current scrubbing job started
- Last Duration - how long the last scrubber took to run to completion.
### Checksum Calculated Counts
- Total Checksum Count - Total number of checksums calculated over the life
  of the scrubber.
- Last Checksum Count - number of checksums calculated during last scrubber job
- Current Checksum Count - number of checksums calculated so far for the
  current scrubber job
### Silent Data Corruption Counts
- Total Silent Data Corruption - Total number of silent data corruption
  found while scrubbing object values.
- Current Silent Data Corruption - number of silent data corruption found so far
  for the current scrubber job


## Design Details & Implementation

### Pool ULT
The code for the pool ULT is found in `srv_pool_scrub.c`. It can be a bit
difficult to follow because there are several layers of callback functions due
to the nature of how ULTs and the vos_iterator work, but the file is organized
such that functions typically call the function above it (either directly or
indirectly as a callback). For example (~> is an indirect call, -> is a direct
call):

```
ds_start_scrubbing_ult ~> scrubbing_ult -> scrub_pool ~> cont_iter_scrub_cb ->
    scrub_cont ~> obj_iter_scrub_cb ...
```

### VOS Layer
- In order to mark data as corrupted a flag field is added to bio_addr_t which
  includes a CORRUPTED bit.
- The vos update api already accepts a flag, so a CORRUPTED flag is added and
  handled during an update so that, if set, the bio address will be updated to
  be corrupted. (Documented in src/vos/README.md)
- On fetch, if a value is already marked corrupted, return -DER_CSUM

### Object Layer
- When corruption is detected on the server during a fetch, aggregation, or
  rebuild the server calls VOS to update value as corrupted.
- (TBD) Add Server Side Verifying on fetch so can know if media or network
  corruption (note: need something so extents aren't double verified?)

## Testing
- pool_scrubbing_tests


## Debugging
- In the server.yml configuration file set the following env_vars
```
- D_LOG_MASK=DEBUG
- DD_SUBSYS=pool
- DD_MASK=csum
```
