# Application Interface and Tiering

## DAOS Container Management

DAOS containers are the unit of data management for users.

### Container Creation/Destroy

Containers can be created and destroyed through the
daos_cont_create/destroy() functions exported by the DAOS API. A user
tool called “daos” to manage containers is under development and will be
available and documented here for DAOS v1.0.

### Container Properties

At creation time, a list of container properties can be specified:

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_LABEL is a string that a user can associate with a
    container. e.g. “Cat Pics” or “ResNet-50 training data”

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_LAYOUT_TYPE is the container type (POSIX, MPI-IO,
    HDF5, …)

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_LAYOUT_VER is a version of the layout that can be
    used by I/O middleware and application to handle interoperability.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_CSUM defines whether checksums are enabled or
    disabled and the checksum type used.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_REDUN_FAC is the redundancy factor that drives the
    minimal data protection required for objects stored in the
    container. e.g. RF1 means no data protection, RF3 only allows 3-way
    replication or erasure code N+2.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_REDUN_LVL is the fault domain level that should be
    used to place data redundancy information (e.g. storage nodes, racks
    …). This information will be eventually consumed to determine object
    placement.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_SNAPSHOT_MAX is the maximum number of snapshot to
    retain. When a new snapshot is taken and the threshold is reached,
    the oldest snapshot will be automatically deleted.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_ACL is the list of ACL for the container.

-   DAOS_PROP_CO_COMPRESS and DAOS_PROP_CO_ENCRYPT are reserved to
    configure respectively compression and encryption. Those features
    are currently not on the roadmap.

While those properties are currently stored persistently with container
metadata, many of them are still under development. The ability to
modify some of these properties on an existing container will also be
eventually provided.

### Container Snapshot

Similar to container create/destroy, a container can be snapshotted
through the DAOS API by calling daos_cont_create_snap(). Additional
functions are provided to destroy and list container snapshots.

The API also provides the ability to subscribe to container snapshot
events and to rollback the content of a container to a previous
snapshot, but those operations are not yet fully implemented.

This section will be updated once the “daos” tool is available.

### Container User Attributes

Similar to POSIX extended attributes, users can attach some metadata to
each container through the daos_cont_{list/get/set}_attr() API.

### Container ACLs

Support for per-container ACLs is scheduled for DAOS v1.2. Similar to
pool ACLs, container ACLs will implement a subset of the NFSv4 ACL
standard. This feature will be documented here once available.

## Native Programming Interface

### Building against the DAOS library

To build an applications or I/O middleware against the native DAOS API,
include the daos.h header file in your program and link with -Ldaos.
Examples are available under src/tests.

### DAOS API Reference

libdaos is written in C and uses Doxygen comments that are added to C
header files.

\[TODO] Generate Doxygen document and add a link here.

### Bindings to Different Languages

API bindings to both Python[^1] and Go[^2] languages are available.

## POSIX Filesystem

A regular POSIX namespace can be encapsulated into a DAOS container.
This capability is provided by the libdfs library that implements the
file and directory abstractions over the native libdaos library. The
POSIX emulation can be exposed to applications or I/O frameworks either
directly (e.g. for frameworks Spark or TensorFlow or benchmark like IOR
or mdtest that support different storage backend plugin) or
transparently via a FUSE daemon combined optionally with an interception
library to address some of the FUSE performance bottleneck by delivering
full OS bypass for POSIX read/write operations.

### libdfs

DFS stands for DAOS File System and is a library that allows a DAOS
container to be accessed as a hierarchical POSIX namespace. It supports
files, directories and symbolic links, but not hard links. Access
permissions are inherited from the parent pool and not implemented on a
per-file or per-directory basis. setuid() and setgid() programs as well
as supplementary groups are currently not supported.

While libdfs can be tested from a single instance (i.e. single process
or client node if used through dfuse), special care is required when the
same POSIX container is mounted concurrently by multiple processes.
Concurrent DFS mounts are not recommended. Support for concurrency
control is under development and will be documented here once ready.

### dfuse

A simple high level fuse plugin (dfuse) is implemented to test the DFS
API and functionality with existing POSIX tests and benchmarks (IOR,
mdtest, etc.). The DFS fuse exposes one mountpoint as a single DFS
namespace with a single pool and container. To test dfuse, the following
steps need to be done:

1. Launch DAOS server(s) and create a pool as specified in the previous section. This will return a pool uuid "puuid" and service rank list "svcl"
1.  Create an empty directory for the fuse mountpoint. For example let's use /tmp/dfs_test
1. Mount dfuse with the following command: 

        orterun -np 1 --ompi-server file:~/uri.txt dfuse /tmp/dfs_test -s -f -p puuid -l svcl -p specifies the pool uuid and -l specifies the service rank list
    (from dmg).
3.  Other arguments to dfuse: -r: option to destroy the container
    associated with the namespace when you umount. -d: prints debug
    messages at the fuse mount terminal
4.  Now /tmp/dfs_test can be used as a POSIX file system (i.e., can run
    things like IOR/mdtest on it)
5. When done, unmount the file system: fusermount -u /tmp/dfs_test

Work is underway to rewrite the dfuse daemon against the low-level
    FUSE API.

### libioil

An interception library called libioil is under development. This
library will work in conjunction with dfuse and allow to intercept POSIX
read(2) and write(2) and issue the I/O operations directly from the
application context through libdaos and without any application changes.

Support for libioil is currently planned for DAOS v1.2.

## Unified Namespace

The DAOS tier can be tightly integrated with the Lustre parallel
filesystem in which DAOS containers will be represented through the
Lustre namespace. This capability is under development and is scheduled
for DAOS v1.2.

## HPC I/O Middleware Support

Several HPC I/O middleware libraries have been ported to the native API.

### MPI-IO

DAOS has its own MPI-IO ROM ADIO driver located in a MPICH fork on
GitHub:

<https://github.com/daos-stack/mpich>

This driver has been submitted upstream for integration.

To build the MPI-IO driver:

-   export MPI_LIB=""

-   download the mpich repo from above and switch to daos_adio branch

-   ./autogen.sh

-   mkdir build; cd build

-   ../configure --prefix=dir --enable-fortran=all --enable-romio
    --enable-cxx --enable-g=all --enable-debuginfo
    --with-file-system=ufs+daos --with-daos=dir --with-cart=dir

-   make -j8; make install

Switch PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH where you want to build your client
apps or libs that use MPI to the above installed MPICH. Note that the
DAOS server will still need to be launched with OMPI's orterun. This is
a unique situation where the server uses OMPI and the clients will be
launched with MPICH.

Build any client (HDF5, ior, mpi test suites) normally with the mpicc
and mpich library installed above (see child pages).

To run an example:

1. Launch DAOS server(s) and create a pool as specified in the previous section. This will return a pool uuid "puuid" and service rank list "svcl"
2.   At the client side, the following environment variables need to be set:
    
        export PATH=/path/to/mpich/install/bin:$PATH
        export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/mpich/install/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
        export MPI_LIB=""
        export CRT_ATTACH_INFO_PATH=/path/ (whatever was passed to daos_server -a)
        export DAOS_SINGLETON_CLI=1
2.  export DAOS_POOL=puuid; export DAOS_SVCL=svcl
    This is just temporary till we have a better way of passing pool
    connect info to MPI-IO and other middleware over DAOS.
3.  Run the client application or test.

Limitations to the current implementation include:

-   Incorrect MPI_File_set_size and MPI_File_get_size - This will
    be fixed in the future when DAOS correctly supports records
    enumeration after punch or key query for max/min key and recx.

-   Reading Holes does not return 0, but leaves the buffer untouched
    (Not sure how to fix this - might need to wait for DAOS
    implementation of iov_map_t to determine holes vs written bytes in
    the Array extent).

-   No support for MPI file atomicity, preallocate, shared file
    pointers.
    (Those features were agreed upon as OK not to support.)

### HDF5

A prototype version of a HDF5 DAOS connector is available. Please refer
to the DAOS VOL connector user guide[^3] for instructions on how to
build and use it.

## Spark Support

Spark integration with libdfs is under development and is scheduled for
DAOS v1.0 or v1.2.

## Data Migration

### Migration to/from a POSIX filesystem

A dataset mover tool is under consideration to move a snapshot of a
POSIX, MPI-IO or HDF5 container to a POSIX filesystem and vice versa.
The copy will be performed at the POSIX or HDF5 level. The resulting
HDF5 file over the POSIX filesystem will be accessible through the
native HDF5 connector with the POSIX VFD.

The first version of the mover tool is currently scheduled for DAOS
v1.4.

### Container Parking

The mover tool will also eventually support the ability to serialize and
deserialize a DAOS container to a set of POSIX files that can be stored
or “parked” in an external POSIX filesystem. This transformation is
agnostic to the data model and container type and will retain all DAOS
internal metadata.

[^1]: https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/src/utils/py/README.md

[^2]: https://godoc.org/github.com/daos-stack/go-daos/pkg/daos

[^3]: https://bitbucket.hdfgroup.org/projects/HDF5VOL/repos/daos-vol/browse/README.md
