# Software Installation

DAOS runs on both Intel 64 and ARM64 platforms and has been successfully tested
on CentOS 7, OpenSUSE Leap 15.1, and Ubuntu 18.04 distributions.

## Software Dependencies

DAOS requires a C99-capable compiler, a Go compiler, and the scons build tool.
Moreover, the DAOS stack leverages the following open source projects:

-   [*CaRT*](https://github.com/daos-stack/cart) for high-performance
    communication leveraging advanced network capabilities.

-   [*gRPC*](https://grpc.io/) provides a secured out-of-band channel for
    DAOS administration.

-   [*PMDK*](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk.git) for persistent memory
    programming.

-   [*SPDK*](http://spdk.io/) for userspace NVMe device access and management.

-   [*FIO*](https://github.com/axboe/fio) for flexible testing of Linux I/O
    subsystems, specifically enabling validation of userspace NVMe device
    performance through fio-spdk plugin.

-   [*ISA-L*](https://github.com/01org/isa-l) for checksum and erasure code
    computation.

-   [*Argobots*](https://github.com/pmodels/argobots) for thread management.

-   [*hwloc*](https://github.com/open-mpi/hwloc) for discovering system devices,         detecting their NUMA node affinity and for CPU binding

-   [*libfabric*](https://github.com/ofiwg/libfabric) for detecting fabric               interfaces, providers and connection management.

The DAOS build system can be configured to download and build any missing
dependencies automatically.

## Distribution Packages

DAOS RPM and deb packaging is under development and will be available for DAOS
v1.0. Integration with the [Spack](https://spack.io/) package manager is also
under consideration.

## DAOS from Scratch

The following instructions have been verified with CentOS. Installations on other
Linux distributions might be similar with some variations.
Developers of DAOS may want to review the additional sections below before beginning,
for suggestions related specifically to development. Contact us in our
[*forum*](https://daos.groups.io/g/daos) for further help with any issues.

### Build Prerequisites

To build DAOS and its dependencies, several software packages must be installed
on the system. This includes scons, libuuid, cmocka, ipmctl, and several other
packages usually available on all the Linux distributions. Moreover, a Go
version of at least 1.10 is required.

An exhaustive list of packages for each supported Linux distribution is
maintained in the Docker files:

-    [CentOS](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/utils/docker/Dockerfile.centos.7#L53-L75)
-    [OpenSUSE](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/utils/docker/Dockerfile.leap.15#L16-L42)
-    [Ubuntu](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/blob/master/utils/docker/Dockerfile.ubuntu.18.04#L21-L39)

The command lines to install the required packages can be extracted from
the Docker files by removing the "RUN" command, which is specific to Docker.
Check the [docker](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos/tree/master/utils/docker)
directory for different Linux distribution versions.

Some DAOS tests use MPI.   The DAOS build process
uses the environment modules package to detect the presence of MPI.  If none
is found, the build will skip building those tests.

### DAOS Source Code

To check out the DAOS source code, run the following command:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git
```

This command clones the DAOS git repository (path referred as ${daospath}
below). Then initialize the submodules with:

```
$ cd ${daospath}
$ git submodule init
$ git submodule update
```

### Building DAOS & Dependencies

If all the software dependencies listed previously are already satisfied, then
type the following command in the top source directory to build the DAOS stack:

```
$ scons --config=force install
```

If you are a developer of DAOS, we recommend following the instructions in the
[DAOS for Development](https://daos-stack.github.io/admin/installation/#daos-for-development) section.

Otherwise, the missing dependencies can be built automatically by invoking scons
with the following parameters:

```
$ scons --config=force --build-deps=yes install
```

By default, DAOS and its dependencies are installed under ${daospath}/install.
The installation path can be modified by adding the PREFIX= option to the above
command line (e.g., PREFIX=/usr/local).

### Environment setup

Once built, the environment must be modified to search for binaries and header
files in the installation path. This step is not required if standard locations
(e.g. /bin, /sbin, /usr/lib, ...) are used.

```
CPATH=${daospath}/install/include/:$CPATH
PATH=${daospath}/install/bin/:${daospath}/install/sbin:$PATH
export CPATH PATH
```

If using bash, PATH can be set up for you after a build by sourcing the script
scons_local/utils/setup_local.sh from the daos root. This script utilizes a file
generated by the build to determine the location of daos and its dependencies.

If required, ${daospath}/install must be replaced with the alternative path
specified through PREFIX.

## DAOS in Docker

This section describes how to build and run the DAOS service in a Docker
container. A minimum of 5GB of DRAM and 16GB of disk space will be required.
On Mac, please make sure that the Docker settings under
"Preferences/{Disk,Memory}" are configured accordingly.

### Building from GitHub

To build the Docker image directly from GitHub, run the following command:

```
$ docker build -t daos -f Dockerfile.centos.7 github.com/daos-stack/daos#:utils/docker
```

This creates a CentOS 7 image, fetches the latest DAOS version from GitHub,
builds it, and installs it in the image.
For Ubuntu and other Linux distributions, replace Dockerfile.centos.7 with
Dockerfile.ubuntu.18.04 and the appropriate version of interest.

Once the image created, one can start a container that will eventually run
the DAOS service:

```
$ docker run -it -d --privileged --name server \
        -v /dev/hugepages:/dev/hugepages \
        daos
```

If Docker is being run on a non-Linux system (e.g., OSX), the export of /dev/hugepages
should be removed since it is not supported.

### Building from a Local Tree

To build from a local tree stored on the host, a volume must be created to share
the source tree with the Docker container. To do so, execute the following
command to create a docker image without checking out the DAOS source tree:

```
$ docker build -t daos -f utils/docker/Dockerfile.centos.7 --build-arg NOBUILD=1 .
```

Then create a container that can access the local DAOS source tree:

```
$ docker run -it -d --privileged --name server \
        -v ${daospath}:/home/daos/daos:Z \
        -v /dev/hugepages:/dev/hugepages \
        daos
```

${daospath} should be replaced with the full path to your DAOS source tree.
As mentioned above, the export of /dev/hugepages should be removed if the
host is not a Linux system.

Then execute the following command to build and install DAOS in the
container:

```
$ docker exec server scons --build-deps=yes install PREFIX=/usr
```

### Running DAOS Service in Docker

Please first make sure that the uio_pci_generic module is loaded:

```
$ ls /sys/bus/pci/drivers/uio_pci_generic
ls: cannot access /sys/bus/pci/drivers/uio_pci_generic: No such file or director

$ sudo modprobe uio_pci_generic

$ ls /sys/bus/pci/drivers/uio_pci_generic
0000:00:04.0  0000:00:04.3  0000:00:04.6  0000:5f:00.0  0000:80:04.2  0000:80:04.5  0000:81:00.0  module     uevent
0000:00:04.1  0000:00:04.4  0000:00:04.7  0000:80:04.0  0000:80:04.3  0000:80:04.6  0000:da:00.0  new_id     unbind
0000:00:04.2  0000:00:04.5  0000:5e:00.0  0000:80:04.1  0000:80:04.4  0000:80:04.7  bind          remove_id
```

SCM and NVMe storage can then be configured by running the follow command:

```
$ docker exec server daos_server storage prepare
```

Note that this command reports that /dev/hugepages is not accessible on
OSX. This still allows running the DAOS service despite the error.

The DAOS service can then be started as follows:

```
$ docker exec server mkdir /var/run/daos_server
$ docker exec server daos_server start \
        -o /home/daos/daos/utils/config/examples/daos_server_local.yml
```

The daos_server_local.yml configuration file sets up a simple local DAOS system
with a single server instance running in the container. By default, it uses 4GB
of DRAM to emulate persistent memory and 16GB of bulk storage under /tmp.
The storage size can be changed in the yaml file if necessary.

Once started, the DAOS server waits for the administrator to format the system.
This can be triggered in a different shell, using the following command:

```
$ docker exec server dmg -i storage format
```

Upon successful completion of the format, the storage engine is started, and pools
can be created using the daos admin tool (see next section).

## DAOS for Development

This section covers specific instructions to create a developer-friendly
environment to contribute to the DAOS development. This includes how to
regenerate the protobuf files or add new Go package dependencies, which is
only required for development purposes.

### Building DAOS for Development

For development, it is recommended to build and install each dependency in a
unique subdirectory. The DAOS build system supports this through the
TARGET\_PREFIX variable. Once the submodules have been initialized and updated,
run the following commands:

```
$ scons PREFIX=${daos_prefix_path}
      TARGET_PREFIX=${daos_prefix_path}/opt install
      --build-deps=yes
      --config=force
```

Installing the components into seperate directories allow upgrading the
components individually by replacing --build-deps=yes with
--update-prereq={component\_name}. This requires a change to the environment
configuration from before. For automated environment setup, source
scons_local/utils/setup_local.sh.

```
ARGOBOTS=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/argobots
CART=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/cart
FIO=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/fio
FUSE=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/fuse
ISAL=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/isal
MERCURY=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/mercury
OFI=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/ofi
OPENPA=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/openpa
PMDK=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/pmdk
PROTOBUFC=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/protobufc
SPDK=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/spdk


LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/spdk/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/protobufc/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/pmdk/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/openpa/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/ofi/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/mercury/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/isal/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/fuse/lib64:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/cart/lib:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/argobots/lib
PATH=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/spdk/bin:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/pmdk/bin:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/ofi/bin:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/isal/bin:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/fio/bin:${daos_prefix_path}/opt/cart/bin

```

With this approach, DAOS would get built using the prebuilt dependencies in
${daos_prefix_path}/opt, and required options are saved for future compilations.
So, after the first time, during development, only "scons --config=force" and
"scons --config=force install" would suffice for compiling changes to DAOS
source code.

### Using other compilers

If you wish to compile DAOS with clang or use the Intel compilers rather than
gcc, set COMPILER=clang or COMPILER=icc on the scons command line.
This option is also saved for future compilations.

### Go dependencies

Developers contributing Go code may need to change the external dependencies
located in the src/control/vendor directory. The DAOS codebase uses
[dep](https://github.com/golang/dep) to manage these dependencies.

On EL7 and later:

```
$ yum install yum-plugin-copr
$ yum copr enable hnakamur/golang-dep
$ yum install golang-dep
```

On Fedora 27 and later:

```
$ dnf install dep
```

On Ubuntu 18.04 and later:

```
$ apt-get install go-dep
```

For OSes that don't supply a package:

-    Ensure that you have a personal GOPATH (see "go env GOPATH", referred to as
"$GOPATH" in this document) and a GOBIN ($GOPATH/bin) set up and included in
your PATH:

```
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/bin
$ export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
```

- Then follow the [installation instructions on Github](https://github.com/golang/dep).

To update the vendor directory using dep after changing Gopkg.toml, make
sure DAOS is cloned into "$GOPATH/src/github.com/daos-stack/daos"

Then:

```
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/daos-stack/daos/src/control
$ dep ensure
```

### Protobuf Compiler

The DAOS control plane infrastructure uses protobuf as the data serialization
format for its RPC requests. The DAOS proto files use protobuf 3 syntax, which is
not supported by the platform protobuf compiler in all cases. Not all developers
will need to build the proto files into the various source files.
However, if changes are made to the proto files, the corresponding C and Go
source files will need to be regenerated with a protobuf 3.\* or higher
compiler.

The recommended installation method is to clone the git repositories, check out
the tagged releases noted below, and install from source. Later versions may
work but are not guaranteed.

- [Protocol Buffers](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf) v3.5.1.
  [Installation instructions](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/src/README.md).
- [Protobuf-C](https://github.com/protobuf-c/protobuf-c) v1.3.1.
  [Installation instructions](https://github.com/protobuf-c/protobuf-c/blob/master/README.md).
- gRPC plugin: [protoc-gen-go](https://github.com/golang/protobuf) v1.2.0.
  Must match the proto version in src/control/Gopkg.toml.
  Install the specific version using GIT_TAG instructions [here](https://github.com/golang/protobuf/blob/master/README.md).

Generate the Go file using the gRPC plugin. You can designate the directory
location:

```
$ protoc myfile.proto --go_out=plugins=grpc:<go_file_dir>
```

Generate the C files using Protobuf-C. As the header and source files in DAOS
are typically kept in separate locations, you will need to move them manually
to their destination directories:

```
$ protoc-c myfile.proto --c_out=.
$ mv myfile.pb-c.h <c_file_include_dir>
$ mv myfile.pb-c.c <c_file_src_dir>
```
