# DAOS Quick Start Guide

## Software Requirements

DAOS requires a C99-capable compiler and the scons build tool. In addition, the DAOS stack is proud to leverage the following open source projects:
- [CaRT](https://github.com/daos-stack/cart) that relies on both [Mercury](https://mercury-hpc.github.io) and [CCI](http://cci-forum.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/cci-0.3.0.tar.gz) for lightweight network transport and [PMIx](https://github.com/pmix/master) for process set management. See the CaRT repository for more information on how to build the CaRT library.
- [NVML](https://github.com/pmem/nvml.git) for persistent memory programming..
- [Argobots](https://github.com/pmodels/argobots) for thread management.

If all the software dependencies listed above are already satisfied, then just type "scons" in the top source directory to build the DAOS stack. Otherwise, please follow the instructions in the section below to build DAOS with all the dependencies.

In the near future, the DAOS stack will also rely on:
- [SPDK](http://spdk.io) for NVMe device access and management
- [ISA-L](https://github.com/01org/isa-l) for checksum and erasure code computation

## Building DAOS

The below instructions have been verified with CentOS. Installations on other Linux distributions might be similar with some variations. Please contact us in our [forum](users@daos.groups.io) if running into issues.

(a) Pre-install dependencies
Please install the following Red Hat Enterprise Linux RPM software packages (or) equivalent for other distros:

    # yum -y install epel-release scons cmake doxygen gcc-c++
    # yum -y install boost-devel libevent-devel librdmacm-devel
    # yum -y install libtool-ltdl-devel libuuid-devel openssl-devel
    # yum -y install libcmocka libcmocka-devel pandoc

If no Cmocka RPMs are available, please install from [source](https://cmocka.org/files/1.1/cmocka-1.1.0.tar.xz) as detailed below:

    # tar xvf cmocka-1.1.0.tar.xz
    # cd cmocka
    # mkdir build && cd build && cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug .. && make && sudo make install

Moreover, please make sure all the auto tools listed below are at the appropriate versions.

    m4 (GNU M4) 1.4.16
    flex 2.5.37
    autoconf (GNU Autoconf) 2.69
    automake (GNU automake) 1.13.4
    libtool (GNU libtool) 2.4.2

(b) Checking out the DAOS source code

    # git clone https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git

This clones the DAOS git repository (path referred as \${daospath} below). Then initialize the submodules with:

    # cd ${daospath}
    # git submodule init
    # git submodule update

(c) Building all dependencies automatically

Invoke scons with the following parameters:

    # scons --build-deps=yes install

By default, all software will be installed under \${daospath}/install. The TARGET\_PREFIX= option can be added to the command line above to specify an alternative installation path.

(d) Environment setup

Once built, the environment must be modified to search for binaries, libraries and header files in the installation path. This step is not required if standard locations (e.g. /bin, /sbin, /usr/lib, ...) are used.

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${daospath}/install/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${daospath}/install/lib/daos_srv/:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    CPATH=${daospath}/install/include/:$CPATH
    PATH=${daospath}/install/bin/:${daospath}/install/sbin:$PATH
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH CPATH PATH

If required, \${daospath}/install must be replaced with the alternative path specified through PREFIX. The network type to use as well the debug log location can be selected as follows:

    CCI_CONFIG=${daospath}/install/etc/cci.ini
    CRT_PHY_ADDR_STR="ofi+sockets",
	OFI_INTERFACE=eth0, where eth0 is the network device you want to use.
	for infiniband you could use ib0 or whichever else pointing to IB device.
    DD_LOG=${daosdebugpath}, /tmp/daos.log by default.
    export CCI_CONFIG CRT_PHY_ADDR_STR DD_LOG

Additionally, one might want to set the following environment variables to work around an Argobot issue:

    ABT_ENV_MAX_NUM_XSTREAMS=100
    ABT_MAX_NUM_XSTREAMS=100
    export ABT_ENV_MAX_NUM_XSTREAMS ABT_MAX_NUM_XSTREAMS

## Using DAOS

DAOS uses orterun(1) for scalable process launch. The list of storage nodes can be specified in an host file (referred as \${hostfile}). The DAOS server and the application can be started seperately, but must share an URI file (referred as \${urifile}) to connect to each other. The \${urifile} is generated by orterun using (\-\-report-uri filename) at server and used at application with (\-\-ompi-server file:filename). In addition, the DAOS server must be started with the \-\-enable-recovery option to support server failure. See the orterun(1) man page for additional options.

(a) Starting the DAOS server

On each storage node, the DAOS server will use a storage path (specified by --storage or -s) that must be a directory in a tmpfs filesystem, for the time being. If not specified, it is assumed to be /mnt/daos. To configure the storage:

    mount -t tmpfs -o size=<bytes> tmpfs /mnt/daos

To start the DAOS server, run:

    orterun -np <num_servers> --hostfile ${hostfile} --enable-recovery --report-uri ${urifile} daos_server

By default, the DAOS server will use all the cores available on the storage server. You can limit the number of execution streams with the -c #cores\_to\_use option.
Hostfile used here is the same as the ones used by Open MPI. See (https://www.open-mpi.org/faq/?category=running#mpirun-hostfile) for additional details.

(b) Creating/destroy a DAOS pool

A DAOS pool can be created and destroyed through the DAOS management API (see  daos\_mgmt.h). We also provide an utility called dmg to manage storage pools from the command line.

To create a pool:

    orterun --ompi-server file:${urifile} dmg create --size=xxG

This creates a pool distributed across the DAOS servers with a target size on each server of xxGB. The UUID allocated to the newly created pool is printed to stdout (referred as \${pooluuid}).

To destroy a pool:

    orterun --ompi-server file:${urifile} dmg destroy --pool=${pooluuid}

(c) Building applications or I/O middleware against the DAOS library

Include the daos.h header file in your program and link with -Ldaos. Examples are available under src/tests.

(d) Running applications

    orterun -np <num_clients> --hostfile ${hostfile_cli} --ompi-server file:$urifile ${application} eg., ./daos_test

## Setup DAOS for Development

Setting up DAOS for development would be simpler by building with TARGET\_PREFIX for all the dependencies and use PREFIX for your custom DAOS installation from your sandbox. Once the submodule has been initialized and updated,

    scons --build-deps=yes PREFIX=$(daos_prefix_path} TARGET_PREFIX=${daos_prefix_path}/opt install

With this type of installation each individual component is built into a different directory. Installing the components into seperate directories allow to upgrade the components individually using --update-prereq={component\_name}. This requires change to the environment configuration from before.


    ARGOBOTS=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/argobots
    CART=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/cart
    CCI=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/cci
    HWLOC=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/hwloc
    MERCURY=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/mercury
    NVML=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/nvml
    OMPI=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/ompi
    OPA=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/openpa
    PMIX=${daos_prefix_path}/opt/pmix

    PATH=$CART/bin/:$CCI/bin/:$HWLOC/bin/:$PATH
    PATH=$MERCURY/bin/:$NVML/bin/:$OMPI/bin/:$OPA/bin/:$PMIX/bin/:$PATH
    PATH=${daos_prefix_path}/bin/:$PATH

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib64/:$ARGOBOTS/lib/:$CART/lib/:$CCI/lib/:$HWLOC/lib/:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$MERCURY/lib/:$NVML/lib/:$OMPI/lib/:$OMPI/lib/openmpi/:$OPA/lib/:$PMIX/lib/:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${daos_prefix_path}/lib/:${daos_prefix_path}/lib/daos_srv/:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

(a) Using prebuilt dependencies

With an installation complete with TARGET_PREFIX, the PREBUILT_PREFIX functionality can be used to reuse prebuilt dependencies.
On your new sandbox after 'git submodule init and git submodule update'

    scons PREBUILT_PREFIX=${daos_prefix_path}/opt PREFIX=${daos_custom_install} install

With this approach only daos would get built using the prebuilt dependencies in ${daos_prefix_path}/opt and the PREBUILT_PREFIX and PREFIX would get saved for future compilations. So, after the first time, during development, a mere "scons" and "scons install" would suffice for compiling changes to daos source code.
