.TH dmg 1 "1 April 2020"
.SH NAME
dmg \- Administrative tool for managing DAOS clusters
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdmg\fP [OPTIONS] [COMMAND] [SUBCOMMAND]
.SH DESCRIPTION
dmg (DAOS Management) is a tool for connecting to DAOS servers
for the purpose of issuing administrative commands to the cluster. dmg is
provided as a means for allowing administrators to securely discover and
administer DAOS components such as storage allocations, network configuration,
and access control settings, along with system wide operations.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Application Options
.TP
\fB\fB\-\-allow-proxy\fR\fP
Allow proxy configuration via environment
.TP
\fB\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-host-list\fR\fP
comma separated list of addresses <ipv4addr/hostname:port>
.TP
\fB\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-insecure\fR\fP
have dmg attempt to connect without certificates
.TP
\fB\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR\fP
enable debug output
.TP
\fB\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR\fP
Enable JSON output
.TP
\fB\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-host-file\fR\fP
path of hostfile specifying list of addresses <ipv4addr/hostname:port>, if specified takes preference over HostList
.TP
\fB\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-config-path\fR\fP
Client config file path
.SH COMMANDS
.SS network
Perform tasks related to network devices attached to remote servers

\fBAliases\fP: n

.SS network list
List all known OFI providers on remote servers that are understood by 'scan'
.SS network scan
Scan for network interface devices on remote servers

\fBUsage\fP: network scan [scan-OPTIONS]
.TP
.TP
\fB\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-provider\fR\fP
Filter device list to those that support the given OFI provider (default is the provider specified in daos_server.yml)
.TP
\fB\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR\fP
Specify 'all' to see all devices on all providers.  Overrides --provider
.SS pool
Perform tasks related to DAOS pools

\fBAliases\fP: p

.SS pool create
Create a DAOS pool

\fBUsage\fP: pool create [create-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: c

.TP
\fB\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR\fP
DAOS pool to be owned by given group, format name@domain
.TP
\fB\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR\fP
DAOS pool to be owned by given user, format name@domain
.TP
\fB\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-acl-file\fR\fP
Access Control List file path for DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-scm-size\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Size of SCM component of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nvme-size\fR\fP
Size of NVMe component of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-ranks\fR\fP
Storage server unique identifiers (ranks) for DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-nsvc\fR <default: \fI"1"\fR>\fP
Number of pool service replicas
.TP
\fB\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sys\fR <default: \fI"daos_server"\fR>\fP
DAOS system that pool is to be a part of
.TP
\fB\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pool\fR\fP
UUID to be used when creating the pool, randomly generated if not specified
.SS pool delete-acl
Delete an entry from a DAOS pool's Access Control List

\fBUsage\fP: pool delete-acl [delete-acl-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: da

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-principal\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Principal whose entry should be removed
.SS pool destroy
Destroy a DAOS pool

\fBUsage\fP: pool destroy [destroy-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: d

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool to destroy
.TP
\fB\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR\fP
Force removal of DAOS pool
.SS pool get-acl
Get a DAOS pool's Access Control List

\fBUsage\fP: pool get-acl [get-acl-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: ga

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-outfile\fR\fP
Output ACL to file
.TP
\fB\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR\fP
Allow to clobber output file
.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR\fP
Add descriptive comments to ACL entries
.SS pool list
List DAOS pools

\fBAliases\fP: l

.SS pool overwrite-acl
Overwrite a DAOS pool's Access Control List

\fBUsage\fP: pool overwrite-acl [overwrite-acl-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: oa

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-acl-file\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Path for new Access Control List file
.SS pool query
Query a DAOS pool

\fBUsage\fP: pool query [query-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: q

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool to query
.SS pool set-prop
Set pool property

\fBUsage\fP: pool set-prop [set-prop-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: sp

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Name of property to be set
.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-value\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Value of property to be set
.SS pool update-acl
Update entries in a DAOS pool's Access Control List

\fBUsage\fP: pool update-acl [update-acl-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: ua

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-pool\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
UUID of DAOS pool
.TP
\fB\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-acl-file\fR\fP
Path for new Access Control List file
.TP
\fB\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-entry\fR\fP
Single Access Control Entry to add or update
.SS storage
Perform tasks related to storage attached to remote servers

\fBAliases\fP: st

.SS storage format
Format SCM and NVMe storage attached to remote servers.

\fBUsage\fP: storage format [format-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: f

.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR\fP
Show results of each SCM & NVMe device format operation
.TP
\fB\fB\-\-reformat\fR\fP
Always reformat storage (CAUTION: Potentially destructive)
.SS storage prepare
Prepare SCM and NVMe storage attached to remote servers.

\fBUsage\fP: storage prepare [prepare-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: p

.TP
\fB\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-pci-whitelist\fR\fP
Whitespace separated list of PCI devices (by address) to be unbound from Kernel driver and used with SPDK (default is all PCI devices).
.TP
\fB\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-hugepages\fR\fP
Number of hugepages to allocate (in MB) for use by SPDK (default 1024)
.TP
\fB\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-target-user\fR\fP
User that will own hugepage mountpoint directory and vfio groups.
.TP
\fB\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nvme-only\fR\fP
Only prepare NVMe storage.
.TP
\fB\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-scm-only\fR\fP
Only prepare SCM.
.TP
\fB\fB\-\-reset\fR\fP
Reset SCM modules to memory mode after removing namespaces. Reset SPDK returning NVMe device bindings back to kernel modules.
.TP
\fB\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR\fP
Perform format without prompting for confirmation
.SS storage query
Query storage commands, including raw NVMe SSD device health stats and internal blobstore health info.

\fBAliases\fP: q

.SS storage query blobstore-health
Query internal blobstore health data.

\fBUsage\fP: query blobstore-health [blobstore-health-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: b

.TP
\fB\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-devuuid\fR\fP
Device/Blobstore UUID to query
.TP
\fB\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tgtid\fR\fP
VOS target ID to query
.SS storage query device-state
Query the device state (ie NORMAL or FAULTY).

\fBUsage\fP: query device-state [device-state-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: d

.TP
\fB\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-devuuid\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Device/Blobstore UUID to query
.SS storage query nvme-health
Query raw NVMe SPDK device statistics.

\fBAliases\fP: n

.SS storage query smd
Query per-server metadata.

\fBUsage\fP: query smd [smd-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: s

.TP
\fB\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-devices\fR\fP
List all devices/blobstores stored in per-server metadata table.
.TP
\fB\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pools\fR\fP
List all VOS pool targets stored in per-server metadata table.
.SS storage scan
Scan SCM and NVMe storage attached to remote servers.

\fBUsage\fP: storage scan [scan-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: s

.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR\fP
List SCM & NVMe device details
.SS storage set
Manually set the device state.

\fBAliases\fP: s

.SS storage set nvme-faulty
Manually set the device state of an NVMe SSD to FAULTY.

\fBUsage\fP: set nvme-faulty [nvme-faulty-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: n

.TP
\fB\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-devuuid\fR (\fIrequired\fR)\fP
Device/Blobstore UUID to set
.SS system
Perform distributed tasks related to DAOS system

\fBAliases\fP: sy

.SS system leader-query
Query for current Management Service leader

\fBAliases\fP: l

.SS system list-pools
List all pools in the DAOS system

\fBAliases\fP: p

.SS system query
Query DAOS system status

\fBUsage\fP: system query [query-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: q

.TP
\fB\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR\fP
Display more member details
.TP
\fB\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-ranks\fR\fP
Comma separated list of system ranks to query
.SS system start
Perform start of stopped DAOS system

\fBAliases\fP: r

.SS system stop
Perform controlled shutdown of DAOS system

\fBUsage\fP: system stop [stop-OPTIONS]
.TP

\fBAliases\fP: s

.TP
\fB\fB\-\-force\fR\fP
Force stop DAOS system members
.SS version
Print dmg version
