terraform/modules/daos_server/README.md, before:

# DAOS Server module

This module creates a opinionated deployment of DAOS on GCP.

## Usage

The resources/services/activations/deletions that this module will create/trigger are:
- Create an instance tempate for DAOS servers
- Create a stateful instance group for DAOS servers

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
Copyright 2021 Google LLC

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 0.14.5 |
| <a name="requirement_google"></a> [google](#requirement\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |
| <a name="requirement_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#requirement\_google-beta) | >= 4.16.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |
| <a name="provider_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#provider\_google-beta) | >= 4.16.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [google-beta_google_compute_instance_template.daos_sig_template](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_instance_template) | resource |
| [google_compute_instance_group_manager.daos_sig](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_instance_group_manager) | resource |
| [google_compute_per_instance_config.named_instances](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_per_instance_config) | resource |
| [google_compute_image.os_image](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/data-sources/compute_image) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_daos_crt_timeout"></a> [daos\_crt\_timeout](#input\_daos\_crt\_timeout) | crt\_timeout | `number` | `300` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_disk_count"></a> [daos\_disk\_count](#input\_daos\_disk\_count) | Number of local ssd's to use | `number` | `16` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_disk_type"></a> [daos\_disk\_type](#input\_daos\_disk\_type) | Daos disk type to use. For now only suported one is local-ssd | `string` | `"local-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_scm_size"></a> [daos\_scm\_size](#input\_daos\_scm\_size) | scm\_size | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_gvnic"></a> [gvnic](#input\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_instance_base_name"></a> [instance\_base\_name](#input\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_labels"></a> [labels](#input\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-server instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_machine_type"></a> [machine\_type](#input\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. e2-medium | `string` | `"n2-custom-36-215040"` | no |
| <a name="input_mig_name"></a> [mig\_name](#input\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the GCP network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_number_of_instances"></a> [number\_of\_instances](#input\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos servers to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_os_disk_type"></a> [os\_disk\_type](#input\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_os_family"></a> [os\_family](#input\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-server-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_os_project"></a> [os\_project](#input\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_pools"></a> [pools](#input\_pools) | If provided, this module will generate a script to create a list of pools. pool attributes have to be specified in a format acceptable by [dmg](https://docs.daos.io/v2.0/admin/pool_operations/) and daos. | <pre>list(object({<br>    pool_name  = string<br>    pool_size  = string<br>    containers = list(string)<br>    })<br>  )</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_preemptible"></a> [preemptible](#input\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | The GCP project to use | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | The GCP region to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_service_account"></a> [service\_account](#input\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the GCP sub-network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_project"></a> [subnetwork\_project](#input\_subnetwork\_project) | The GCP project where the subnetwork is defined | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_template_name"></a> [template\_name](#input\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | The GCP zone to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_access_points"></a> [access\_points](#output\_access\_points) | List of DAOS servers to use as access points |
| <a name="output_daos_agent_yml"></a> [daos\_agent\_yml](#output\_daos\_agent\_yml) | YAML to configure the daos agent. This is typically saved in /etc/daos/daos\_agent.yml |
| <a name="output_daos_config_script"></a> [daos\_config\_script](#output\_daos\_config\_script) | Script to configure the DAOS system. This will format the sytem with dmg -l and optionally create the specified pools. |
| <a name="output_daos_control_yml"></a> [daos\_control\_yml](#output\_daos\_control\_yml) | YAML configuring DAOS control. This is typically saved in /etc/daos/daos\_control.yml |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

Commit message:

DAOSGCP-85 Add daos_client_install_script output to daos_server module (#32)
* DAOSGCP-85 Add daos_client_install_script output to daos_server module

Needed for HPC toolkit

Signed-off-by: Mark A. Olson <mark.a.olson@intel.com>

terraform/modules/daos_server/README.md, after:

# DAOS Server module

This module creates a opinionated deployment of DAOS on GCP.

## Usage

The resources/services/activations/deletions that this module will create/trigger are:
- Create an instance tempate for DAOS servers
- Create a stateful instance group for DAOS servers

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
Copyright 2021 Google LLC

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 0.14.5 |
| <a name="requirement_google"></a> [google](#requirement\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |
| <a name="requirement_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#requirement\_google-beta) | >= 4.16.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |
| <a name="provider_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#provider\_google-beta) | >= 4.16.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [google-beta_google_compute_instance_template.daos_sig_template](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_instance_template) | resource |
| [google_compute_instance_group_manager.daos_sig](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_instance_group_manager) | resource |
| [google_compute_per_instance_config.named_instances](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_per_instance_config) | resource |
| [google_compute_image.os_image](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/data-sources/compute_image) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_daos_crt_timeout"></a> [daos\_crt\_timeout](#input\_daos\_crt\_timeout) | crt\_timeout | `number` | `300` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_disk_count"></a> [daos\_disk\_count](#input\_daos\_disk\_count) | Number of local ssd's to use | `number` | `16` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_disk_type"></a> [daos\_disk\_type](#input\_daos\_disk\_type) | Daos disk type to use. For now only suported one is local-ssd | `string` | `"local-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_daos_scm_size"></a> [daos\_scm\_size](#input\_daos\_scm\_size) | scm\_size | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_gvnic"></a> [gvnic](#input\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_instance_base_name"></a> [instance\_base\_name](#input\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_labels"></a> [labels](#input\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-server instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_machine_type"></a> [machine\_type](#input\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. e2-medium | `string` | `"n2-custom-36-215040"` | no |
| <a name="input_mig_name"></a> [mig\_name](#input\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the GCP network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_number_of_instances"></a> [number\_of\_instances](#input\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos servers to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_os_disk_type"></a> [os\_disk\_type](#input\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_os_family"></a> [os\_family](#input\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-server-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_os_project"></a> [os\_project](#input\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_pools"></a> [pools](#input\_pools) | If provided, this module will generate a script to create a list of pools. pool attributes have to be specified in a format acceptable by [dmg](https://docs.daos.io/v2.0/admin/pool_operations/) and daos. | <pre>list(object({<br>    pool_name  = string<br>    pool_size  = string<br>    containers = list(string)<br>    })<br>  )</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_preemptible"></a> [preemptible](#input\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | The GCP project to use | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | The GCP region to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_service_account"></a> [service\_account](#input\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the GCP sub-network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_project"></a> [subnetwork\_project](#input\_subnetwork\_project) | The GCP project where the subnetwork is defined | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_template_name"></a> [template\_name](#input\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | The GCP zone to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_access_points"></a> [access\_points](#output\_access\_points) | List of DAOS servers to use as access points |
| <a name="output_daos_agent_yml"></a> [daos\_agent\_yml](#output\_daos\_agent\_yml) | YAML to configure the daos agent. This is typically saved in /etc/daos/daos\_agent.yml |
| <a name="output_daos_client_install_script"></a> [daos\_client\_install\_script](#output\_daos\_client\_install\_script) | Script to install the DAOS client package. |
| <a name="output_daos_config_script"></a> [daos\_config\_script](#output\_daos\_config\_script) | Script to configure the DAOS system. This will format the sytem with dmg -l and optionally create the specified pools. |
| <a name="output_daos_control_yml"></a> [daos\_control\_yml](#output\_daos\_control\_yml) | YAML configuring DAOS control. This is typically saved in /etc/daos/daos\_control.yml |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
