# RPC Handling

When an RPC request arrives at the leader, a service thread of the service module picks up the request and handles it by executing a handler function designed for this type of request. As far as service replication is concerned, a handler comprises state queries (e.g., reading the epoch state), state updates (writing a new version of the pool map), and RPCs to other services (e.g., TARGET_CONTAINER_OPEN RPCs sent to target services). Some handlers involve only queries, some involve updates as well as queries, and others involve all three kinds of actions; rarely, if ever, do handlers involve only updates but no queries.

A handler must assemble all its updates into a single log entry, commit the log entry, and wait for the log entry to become applicable before applying the updates to the service state. Using a single log entry per update RPC easily makes each update RPC atomic with regard to leader crashes and leadership changes. If RPCs that cannot satisfy this requirement are introduced in the future, additional transaction recovery mechanisms will be required. A leader’s service state therefore always represents the effects of all completed update RPCs this leader has handled so far.

Queries, on the other hand, can read directly from the service state, without going through the replicated log. However, to make sure a request sees the effects of all completed update RPCs handled by all leaders ever elected, the handler must ask the Raft module whether there has been any leadership changes. If there has been none, all queries made for this request so far are not stale. If the leader has lost its leadership, the handler aborts the request with an error redirecting the client to the new leader.

RPCs to other services, if they update state of destination services, must be idempotent. In case of a leadership change, the new leader may send them again, if the client resent the service request in question.

Handlers need to cope with reasonable concurrent executions. Conventional local locking on the leader is sufficient to make RPC executions linearizable. Once a leadership change happens, the old leader can no longer perform any updates or leadership verifications with-out noticing the leadership change, which causes all RPCs in execution to abort. The RPCs on the new leader are thus not in conflict with those still left on the old leader. The locks therefore do not need to be replicated as part of the service state.
