terraform/examples/daos_cluster/README.md, before:

# DAOS Cluster Example

This example Terraform configuration demonstrates how to use the [DAOS Terraform Modules](../../modules) to deploy a DAOS cluster consisting of servers and clients.

>
> The current version of the [daos_server](../../modules/daos_server) Terraform module does not yet support automation of the following administration tasks
>
> - storage format
> - pool creation
> - container creation
> - mounting container
>
> These steps must be performed manually by an administrator after the DAOS Server and Client instances have been deployed with Terraform.
>
> Instructions for performing the manual steps will be provided in the documentation for this example.

## Setup

The following steps must be performed prior to running this example.

1. Set defaults for Google Cloud CLI (```gcloud```)
2. Create a Packer image in your GCP project
3. Build DAOS Server and Client images

If you have not completed these steps yet, click the button below to open an interactive walkthrough in [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell). After completing the walkthrough your GCP project will contain the images required to run this Terraform example.

[![DAOS on GCP Setup](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?git_repo=https://github.com/daos-stack/google-cloud-daos&cloudshell_git_branch=main&shellonly=true&tutorial=docs/tutorials/daosgcp_setup.md)

## Deploy a DAOS cluster with this example

Click the button below to open a [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell) tutorial that uses this example to deploy a DAOS Cluster in GCP.

After completing the tutorial you will have a basic understanding of how to use the [DAOS Terraform Modules](../../modules) in your own Terraform configurations as well as how to perform basic administration steps on the DAOS instances after they are deployed.

[![DAOS on GCP Setup](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?git_repo=https://github.com/daos-stack/google-cloud-daos&cloudshell_git_branch=main&shellonly=true&tutorial=docs/tutorials/example_daos_cluster.md)

## Terraform Files

List of Terraform files in this example

| Filename                      | Description                                                                     |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| main.tf                       | Main Terrform configuration file containing resource definitions                |
| variables.tf                  | Variable definitions for variables used in main.tf                              |
| versions.tf                   | Provider definitions                                                            |
| terraform.tfvars.perf.example | Pre-Configured set of set of variables focused on performance                   |
| terraform.tfvars.tco.example  | Pre-Configured set of set of variables focused on lower total cost of ownership |

## Create a `terraform.tfvars` file

Before you run `terraform apply` to deploy a DAOS cluster with this example you need to create a `terraform.tfvars` file in the `terraform/examples/daos_cluster` directory.

The `terraform.tfvars` file will contain the variable values that are used by the `main.tf` configuration file.

To ensure a successful deployment of a DAOS cluster there are two `terraform.tfvars.*.example` files that you can choose from.

You will need to decide which of these files you will copy to `terraform.tfvars`.

### The terraform.tfvars.tco.example file

The `terraform.tfvars.tco.example` contains variables for a cluster deployment with 16 DAOS Clients, 4 DAOS Servers with 16 375GB NVMe SSDs per server.

To use the `terraform.tfvars.tco.example` file run

```bash
cp terraform.tfvars.tco.example terraform.tfvars
```

### The terraform.tfvars.perf.example file

The `terraform.tfvars.perf.example` contains variables for a cluster deployment with 16 DAOS Clients, 4 DAOS Servers with 4 375GB NVMe SSDs per server.

To use the ```terraform.tfvars.perf.example``` file run

```bash
cp terraform.tfvars.perf.example terraform.tfvars
```

### Update `terraform.tfvars` with your project id

Now that you have a `terraform.tfvars` file you need to replace the `<project_id>` placeholder in the file with your project id.

To update the project id in `terraform.tfvars` run

```bash
PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config list --format 'value(core.project)')
sed -i "s/<project_id>/${PROJECT_ID}/g" terraform.tfvars
```

## Deploy the DAOS cluster with the example Terraform configuration

> **Billing Notification!**
>
> Running this example will incur charges in your project.
>
> To avoid surprises, be sure to monitor your costs associated with running this example.
>
> Don't forget to shut down the DAOS cluster with `terraform destroy` when you are finished.

To deploy the DAOS cluster

```bash
cd terraform/examples/daos_cluster
terraform init -input=false
terraform plan -out=tfplan -input=false
terraform apply -input=false tfplan
```

## Perform DAOS administration tasks

After your DAOS cluster has been deployed you can log into the first DAOS client instance to perform administrative tasks.

### Log into the first DAOS client instance

Find the name and IP of the first client instance

```bash
gcloud compute instances list --filter="name ~ daos-client.*-0001" --format="value(name,INTERNAL_IP)"
```
Let's assume the name of the first client is `daos-client-0001`

Log into the first client instance

```bash
gcloud compute ssh daos-client-0001
```

### Format Storage

Format the storage system.

```bash
dmg storage format
```

Upon successful format, DAOS Control Servers will start DAOS I/O engines that have been specified in the server config file.

For more information see the [Storage Formatting section in the Administration Guide](https://docs.daos.io/latest/admin/deployment/#storage-formatting)

### Create a Pool

Now that the system has been formatted a Pool can be created.

Check free NVMe storage.

```bash
dmg storage query usage
```

This will return something like

```
Hosts            SCM-Total SCM-Free SCM-Used NVMe-Total NVMe-Free NVMe-Used
-----            --------- -------- -------- ---------- --------- ---------
daos-server-0001 107 GB    107 GB   0 %      3.2 TB     3.2 TB    0 %
```

In the example output above there is one server with a total of 3.2TB of free space.

With that information you know you can create a 3TB pool.

Create the pool.

```bash
dmg pool create -z 3TB -t 3 -u ${USER} --label=daos_pool
```

For more information about pools see

- https://docs.daos.io/latest/overview/storage/#daos-pool
- https://docs.daos.io/latest/admin/pool_operations/


### Create a Container

Create a container in the pool

```bash
daos container create --type=POSIX --properties=rf:0 --label=daos_cont daos_pool
```

For more information about containers see https://docs.daos.io/latest/overview/storage/#daos-container

### Mount

Mount the storage with `dfuse`

```bash
MOUNT_DIR="/tmp/daos_test1"
mkdir -p "${MOUNT_DIR}"
dfuse --singlethread --pool=daos_pool --container=daos_cont --mountpoint="${MOUNT_DIR}"
df -h -t fuse.daos
```

You can now store files in the DAOS container mounted on `/tmp/daos_test1`.

## Remove DAOS cluster deployment

To destroy the DAOS cluster run

```bash
terraform destroy
```

This will shut down all DAOS server and client instances.

# Terraform Documentation for this Example

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
Copyright 2022 Intel Corporation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 0.14.5 |
| <a name="requirement_google"></a> [google](#requirement\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |

## Providers

No providers.

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_daos_client"></a> [daos\_client](#module\_daos\_client) | ../../modules/daos_client | n/a |
| <a name="module_daos_server"></a> [daos\_server](#module\_daos\_server) | ../../modules/daos_server | n/a |

## Resources

No resources.

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_client_gvnic"></a> [client\_gvnic](#input\_client\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface on DAOS clients | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_client_instance_base_name"></a> [client\_instance\_base\_name](#input\_client\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_labels"></a> [client\_labels](#input\_client\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-client instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_client_machine_type"></a> [client\_machine\_type](#input\_client\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. c2-standard-16 | `string` | `"c2-standard-16"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_mig_name"></a> [client\_mig\_name](#input\_client\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_number_of_instances"></a> [client\_number\_of\_instances](#input\_client\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos clients to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [client\_os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_client\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_disk_type"></a> [client\_os\_disk\_type](#input\_client\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_family"></a> [client\_os\_family](#input\_client\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-client-hpc-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_project"></a> [client\_os\_project](#input\_client\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_client_preemptible"></a> [client\_preemptible](#input\_client\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_client_service_account"></a> [client\_service\_account](#input\_client\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_client_template_name"></a> [client\_template\_name](#input\_client\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the GCP network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | The GCP project to use | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | The GCP region to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_server_daos_crt_timeout"></a> [server\_daos\_crt\_timeout](#input\_server\_daos\_crt\_timeout) | crt\_timeout | `number` | `300` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_disk_count"></a> [server\_daos\_disk\_count](#input\_server\_daos\_disk\_count) | Number of local ssd's to use | `number` | `16` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_disk_type"></a> [server\_daos\_disk\_type](#input\_server\_daos\_disk\_type) | Daos disk type to use. For now only suported one is local-ssd | `string` | `"local-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_scm_size"></a> [server\_daos\_scm\_size](#input\_server\_daos\_scm\_size) | scm\_size | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_server_gvnic"></a> [server\_gvnic](#input\_server\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface on DAOS servers | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_server_instance_base_name"></a> [server\_instance\_base\_name](#input\_server\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_labels"></a> [server\_labels](#input\_server\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-server instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_server_machine_type"></a> [server\_machine\_type](#input\_server\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. e2-medium | `string` | `"n2-custom-36-215040"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_mig_name"></a> [server\_mig\_name](#input\_server\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_number_of_instances"></a> [server\_number\_of\_instances](#input\_server\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos servers to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [server\_os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_server\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_disk_type"></a> [server\_os\_disk\_type](#input\_server\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_family"></a> [server\_os\_family](#input\_server\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-server-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_project"></a> [server\_os\_project](#input\_server\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_server_pools"></a> [server\_pools](#input\_server\_pools) | If provided, this module will generate a script to create a list of pools. pool attributes have to be specified in a format acceptable by [dmg](https://docs.daos.io/v2.0/admin/pool_operations/) and daos. | <pre>list(object({<br>    pool_name  = string<br>    pool_size  = string<br>    containers = list(string)<br>    })<br>  )</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_server_preemptible"></a> [server\_preemptible](#input\_server\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_server_service_account"></a> [server\_service\_account](#input\_server\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_server_template_name"></a> [server\_template\_name](#input\_server\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the GCP sub-network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_project"></a> [subnetwork\_project](#input\_subnetwork\_project) | The GCP project where the subnetwork is defined | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | The GCP zone to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

No outputs.
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

Commit message:

DAOSGCP-99 Added support for using transport certs (#37)
* DAOSGCP-99 Added support for using transport certs

This commit provides support for the use of TLS certs to ensure
secure transport communication.

Signed-off-by: Mark A. Olson <mark.a.olson@intel.com>

Co-authored-by: Łukasz Sitkiewicz <lukasz.sitkiewicz@intel.com>

terraform/examples/daos_cluster/README.md, after:

# DAOS Cluster Example

This example Terraform configuration demonstrates how to use the [DAOS Terraform Modules](../../modules) to deploy a DAOS cluster consisting of servers and clients.

>
> The current version of the [daos_server](../../modules/daos_server) Terraform module does not yet support automation of the following administration tasks
>
> - storage format
> - pool creation
> - container creation
> - mounting container
>
> These steps must be performed manually by an administrator after the DAOS Server and Client instances have been deployed with Terraform.
>
> Instructions for performing the manual steps will be provided in the documentation for this example.

## Setup

The following steps must be performed prior to running this example.

1. Set defaults for Google Cloud CLI (```gcloud```)
2. Create a Packer image in your GCP project
3. Build DAOS Server and Client images

If you have not completed these steps yet, click the button below to open an interactive walkthrough in [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell). After completing the walkthrough your GCP project will contain the images required to run this Terraform example.

[![DAOS on GCP Setup](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?git_repo=https://github.com/daos-stack/google-cloud-daos&cloudshell_git_branch=main&shellonly=true&tutorial=docs/tutorials/daosgcp_setup.md)

## Deploy a DAOS cluster with this example

Click the button below to open a [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell) tutorial that uses this example to deploy a DAOS Cluster in GCP.

After completing the tutorial you will have a basic understanding of how to use the [DAOS Terraform Modules](../../modules) in your own Terraform configurations as well as how to perform basic administration steps on the DAOS instances after they are deployed.

[![DAOS on GCP Setup](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?git_repo=https://github.com/daos-stack/google-cloud-daos&cloudshell_git_branch=main&shellonly=true&tutorial=docs/tutorials/example_daos_cluster.md)

## Terraform Files

List of Terraform files in this example

| Filename                      | Description                                                                     |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| main.tf                       | Main Terrform configuration file containing resource definitions                |
| variables.tf                  | Variable definitions for variables used in main.tf                              |
| versions.tf                   | Provider definitions                                                            |
| terraform.tfvars.perf.example | Pre-Configured set of set of variables focused on performance                   |
| terraform.tfvars.tco.example  | Pre-Configured set of set of variables focused on lower total cost of ownership |

## Create a `terraform.tfvars` file

Before you run `terraform apply` to deploy a DAOS cluster with this example you need to create a `terraform.tfvars` file in the `terraform/examples/daos_cluster` directory.

The `terraform.tfvars` file will contain the variable values that are used by the `main.tf` configuration file.

To ensure a successful deployment of a DAOS cluster there are two `terraform.tfvars.*.example` files that you can choose from.

You will need to decide which of these files you will copy to `terraform.tfvars`.

### The terraform.tfvars.tco.example file

The `terraform.tfvars.tco.example` contains variables for a cluster deployment with 16 DAOS Clients, 4 DAOS Servers with 16 375GB NVMe SSDs per server.

To use the `terraform.tfvars.tco.example` file run

```bash
cp terraform.tfvars.tco.example terraform.tfvars
```

### The terraform.tfvars.perf.example file

The `terraform.tfvars.perf.example` contains variables for a cluster deployment with 16 DAOS Clients, 4 DAOS Servers with 4 375GB NVMe SSDs per server.

To use the ```terraform.tfvars.perf.example``` file run

```bash
cp terraform.tfvars.perf.example terraform.tfvars
```

### Update `terraform.tfvars` with your project id

Now that you have a `terraform.tfvars` file you need to replace the `<project_id>` placeholder in the file with your project id.

To update the project id in `terraform.tfvars` run

```bash
PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config list --format 'value(core.project)')
sed -i "s/<project_id>/${PROJECT_ID}/g" terraform.tfvars
```

## Deploy the DAOS cluster with the example Terraform configuration

> **Billing Notification!**
>
> Running this example will incur charges in your project.
>
> To avoid surprises, be sure to monitor your costs associated with running this example.
>
> Don't forget to shut down the DAOS cluster with `terraform destroy` when you are finished.

To deploy the DAOS cluster

```bash
cd terraform/examples/daos_cluster
terraform init -input=false
terraform plan -out=tfplan -input=false
terraform apply -input=false tfplan
```

## Perform DAOS administration tasks

After your DAOS cluster has been deployed you can log into the first DAOS client instance to perform administrative tasks.

### Log into the first DAOS client instance

Find the name and IP of the first client instance

```bash
gcloud compute instances list --filter="name ~ daos-client.*-0001" --format="value(name,INTERNAL_IP)"
```
Let's assume the name of the first client is `daos-client-0001`

Log into the first client instance

```bash
gcloud compute ssh daos-client-0001
```

### Format Storage

Format the storage system.

```bash
sudo dmg storage format
sudo dmg system query -v
```

Upon successful format, DAOS Control Servers will start DAOS I/O engines that have been specified in the server config file.

For more information see the [Storage Formatting section in the Administration Guide](https://docs.daos.io/latest/admin/deployment/#storage-formatting)

### Create a Pool

Check free NVMe storage.

```bash
sudo dmg storage query usage
```

This will return storage information for the servers.

The output looks similar to

```
Hosts            SCM-Total SCM-Free SCM-Used NVMe-Total NVMe-Free NVMe-Used
-----            --------- -------- -------- ---------- --------- ---------
daos-server-0001 48 GB     48 GB    0 %      1.6 TB     1.6 TB    0 %
daos-server-0002 48 GB     48 GB    0 %      1.6 TB     1.6 TB    0 %
daos-server-0003 48 GB     48 GB    0 %      1.6 TB     1.6 TB    0 %
daos-server-0004 48 GB     48 GB    0 %      1.6 TB     1.6 TB    0 %
```

In the example output above there are 4 servers with a total of 6.4TB of free space.

With that information you know you can safely create a 6TB pool.

Create the pool.

```bash
sudo dmg pool create -z 6TB -t 3 -u ${USER} --label=daos_pool
```

For more information about pools see

- https://docs.daos.io/latest/overview/storage/#daos-pool
- https://docs.daos.io/latest/admin/pool_operations/


### Create a Container

Create a container in the pool

```bash
daos container create --type=POSIX --properties=rf:0 --label=daos_cont daos_pool
```

For more information about containers see https://docs.daos.io/latest/overview/storage/#daos-container

### Mount

Mount the storage with `dfuse`

```bash
MOUNT_DIR="/tmp/daos_test1"
mkdir -p "${MOUNT_DIR}"
dfuse --singlethread --pool=daos_pool --container=daos_cont --mountpoint="${MOUNT_DIR}"
df -h -t fuse.daos
```

You can now store files in the DAOS container mounted on `/tmp/daos_test1`.

## Remove DAOS cluster deployment

To destroy the DAOS cluster run

```bash
terraform destroy
```

This will shut down all DAOS server and client instances.

# Terraform Documentation for this Example

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
Copyright 2022 Intel Corporation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 0.14.5 |
| <a name="requirement_google"></a> [google](#requirement\_google) | >= 3.54.0 |

## Providers

No providers.

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_daos_client"></a> [daos\_client](#module\_daos\_client) | ../../modules/daos_client | n/a |
| <a name="module_daos_server"></a> [daos\_server](#module\_daos\_server) | ../../modules/daos_server | n/a |

## Resources

No resources.

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_allow_insecure"></a> [allow\_insecure](#input\_allow\_insecure) | Sets the allow\_insecure setting in the transport\_config section of the daos\_*.yml files | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_client_gvnic"></a> [client\_gvnic](#input\_client\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface on DAOS clients | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_client_instance_base_name"></a> [client\_instance\_base\_name](#input\_client\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_labels"></a> [client\_labels](#input\_client\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-client instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_client_machine_type"></a> [client\_machine\_type](#input\_client\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. c2-standard-16 | `string` | `"c2-standard-16"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_mig_name"></a> [client\_mig\_name](#input\_client\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_number_of_instances"></a> [client\_number\_of\_instances](#input\_client\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos clients to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [client\_os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_client\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_disk_type"></a> [client\_os\_disk\_type](#input\_client\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_family"></a> [client\_os\_family](#input\_client\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-client-hpc-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_client_os_project"></a> [client\_os\_project](#input\_client\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_client_preemptible"></a> [client\_preemptible](#input\_client\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_client_service_account"></a> [client\_service\_account](#input\_client\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_client_template_name"></a> [client\_template\_name](#input\_client\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-client"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the GCP network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | The GCP project to use | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | The GCP region to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_server_daos_crt_timeout"></a> [server\_daos\_crt\_timeout](#input\_server\_daos\_crt\_timeout) | crt\_timeout | `number` | `300` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_disk_count"></a> [server\_daos\_disk\_count](#input\_server\_daos\_disk\_count) | Number of local ssd's to use | `number` | `16` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_disk_type"></a> [server\_daos\_disk\_type](#input\_server\_daos\_disk\_type) | Daos disk type to use. For now only suported one is local-ssd | `string` | `"local-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_daos_scm_size"></a> [server\_daos\_scm\_size](#input\_server\_daos\_scm\_size) | scm\_size | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_server_gvnic"></a> [server\_gvnic](#input\_server\_gvnic) | Use Google Virtual NIC (gVNIC) network interface on DAOS servers | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_server_instance_base_name"></a> [server\_instance\_base\_name](#input\_server\_instance\_base\_name) | MIG instance base names to use | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_labels"></a> [server\_labels](#input\_server\_labels) | Set of key/value label pairs to assign to daos-server instances | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_server_machine_type"></a> [server\_machine\_type](#input\_server\_machine\_type) | GCP machine type. ie. e2-medium | `string` | `"n2-custom-36-215040"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_mig_name"></a> [server\_mig\_name](#input\_server\_mig\_name) | MIG name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_number_of_instances"></a> [server\_number\_of\_instances](#input\_server\_number\_of\_instances) | Number of daos servers to bring up | `number` | `4` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_disk_size_gb"></a> [server\_os\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_server\_os\_disk\_size\_gb) | OS disk size in GB | `number` | `20` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_disk_type"></a> [server\_os\_disk\_type](#input\_server\_os\_disk\_type) | OS disk type ie. pd-ssd, pd-standard | `string` | `"pd-ssd"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_family"></a> [server\_os\_family](#input\_server\_os\_family) | OS GCP image family | `string` | `"daos-server-centos-7"` | no |
| <a name="input_server_os_project"></a> [server\_os\_project](#input\_server\_os\_project) | OS GCP image project name. Defaults to project\_id if null. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_server_pools"></a> [server\_pools](#input\_server\_pools) | If provided, this module will generate a script to create a list of pools. pool attributes have to be specified in a format acceptable by [dmg](https://docs.daos.io/v2.0/admin/pool_operations/) and daos. | <pre>list(object({<br>    pool_name  = string<br>    pool_size  = string<br>    containers = list(string)<br>    })<br>  )</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_server_preemptible"></a> [server\_preemptible](#input\_server\_preemptible) | If preemptible instances | `string` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_server_service_account"></a> [server\_service\_account](#input\_server\_service\_account) | Service account to attach to the instance. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html#service_account. | <pre>object({<br>    email  = string,<br>    scopes = set(string)<br>  })</pre> | <pre>{<br>  "email": null,<br>  "scopes": [<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append",<br>    "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform"<br>  ]<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_server_template_name"></a> [server\_template\_name](#input\_server\_template\_name) | MIG template name | `string` | `"daos-server"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the GCP sub-network to use | `string` | `"default"` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_project"></a> [subnetwork\_project](#input\_subnetwork\_project) | The GCP project where the subnetwork is defined | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | The GCP zone to create and test resources in | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

No outputs.
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
