src/ddb/README.md, before:

# DAOS Debug Tool (ddb)

## Description

The DAOS Debug Tool (ddb) allows a user to navigate through a file in the VOS
format. It is similar to debugfs for ext2/3/4 and offers both a command line and
interactive shell mode. Key features that will be supported are:

### Parsing a VOS file:

- Printing the VOS 'superblock'
- listing containers, objects, dkeys, akeys, and records
- dumping content of a value
- dumping content of ilogs
- iterating over the dtx committed and active tables

### Altering a VOS file, including:

- deleting containers, objects, dkeys, akeys, or records
- changing/inserting new value
- processing/removing ilogs
- clearing the dtx committed table

## Current State

ddb is very much in development. Currently the interactive mode and the '-R'
option with a single command work relatively well. The only commands that are
currently implemented are quit (for interactive mode) and 'ls' to list the
branches of a vos file (container, objects, ...).

## Design

DDB will be developed on top of the VOS API which already supports interacting
with a VOS file. The vos_iterate api is heavily used to iterate and navigate
over a VOS tree. Function tables/pointers are used quite a bit as well for
injecting callbacks to vos_iterate which already uses a callback approach. It
also helps support unit testing of the different layers.

### Layers

The primary layers for the application are:

#### Main/Entry Point

The main function which initializes daos and vos and accepts program arguments.
It then passes those arguments to the ddb_main function which will then parse
the arguments and options into appropriate fields within the main program
structure.

#### ddb_main

A unit testable "main" function. It accepts the traditional argc/argv parameters
as well as a function table to input and output functions. Unit testing is then
able to fake the input/output to verify that command line arguments, or
arguments in the interactive mode, run the program in the correct mode and
execute the correct sub command. A function table is defined for the actual sub
commands so that these can be faked out as well and the cli can be unit tested
in isolation.

#### ddb commands (sub commands)

The implementation of the individual commands that a user can pass in. It
receives the command options/arguments as a well defined structure (fields of
which are set by ddb).

### ddb vos (dv_)

This layer will adapt the needs of the ddb commands to the current VOS API
implementation, making the VOS interaction a bit nicer for ddb.

Commit message:

Dumping value, ilog, superblock, dtx partial, rm, load
Signed-off-by: Ryon Jensen <ryon.jensen@intel.com>

src/ddb/README.md, after:

# DAOS Debug Tool (ddb)

## Description

The DAOS Debug Tool (ddb) allows a user to navigate through a file in the VOS
format. It is similar to debugfs for ext2/3/4 and offers both a command line and
interactive shell mode. Key features that will be supported are:

### Parsing a VOS file:

- Printing the VOS 'superblock'
- listing containers, objects, dkeys, akeys, and records
- dumping content of a value
- dumping content of ilogs
- iterating over the dtx committed and active tables

### Altering a VOS file, including:

- deleting containers, objects, dkeys, akeys, or records
- changing/inserting new value
- processing/removing ilogs
- clearing the dtx committed table

## Current State

ddb is very much in development. Currently the interactive mode and the '-R'
option with a single command work relatively well.

Status of commands:
- quit - done for interactive mode. Not applicable for other modes
- ls - done
- dump_value - done
- dump_ilog - done, but not tested real well besides simple happy paths.
- dump_superblock - done
- dump_dtx - done
- rm - done
- load - done
- rm_ilog - not started
- rm_dtx - not started

## Design

DDB will be developed on top of the VOS API which already supports interacting
with a VOS file. The vos_iterate api is heavily used to iterate and navigate
over a VOS tree. Function tables/pointers are used quite a bit as well for
injecting callbacks to vos_iterate which already uses a callback approach. It
also helps support unit testing of the different layers.

### Layers

The primary layers for the application are:

#### Main/Entry Point

The main function in ddb_entry.c initializes daos and vos and accepts program
arguments. It then passes those arguments without any parsing to the ddb_main
function in ddb_main.c which will then parse the arguments and options into
appropriate fields within the main program structure.

#### ddb_main

A unit testable "main" function. It accepts the traditional argc/argv parameters
as well as a function table to input and output functions. Unit testing is then
able to fake the input/output to verify that command line arguments, or
arguments in the interactive mode, run the program in the correct mode and
execute the correct sub command. For the most part, ddb_main() manages the
shell, determining if a command should be run and then the program quit (-R),
run a sequence of commands from a file (-f), or run in interactive mode.

#### ddb commands (sub commands)

The implementation of the individual commands that a user can pass in. It
receives a command's options/arguments as a well defined structure (fields of
which are set by ddb). It interacts with a ddb/vos adapter layer for using the
VOS api.

### ddb vos (dv_)

This layer will adapt the needs of the ddb commands to the current VOS API
implementation, making the VOS interaction a bit nicer for ddb.
