# Software Installation

Please check the [support matrix](https://docs.daos.io/v2.2/release/support_matrix)
to select the appropriate software combination.

## Distribution Packages

DAOS packages will be available when DAOS 2.2 is released (planned for first
half of 2022).

## DAOS from Scratch

The following instructions have been verified with CentOS7 and EL8. Installations on other
Linux distributions might be similar with some variations.
Developers of DAOS may want to review the additional sections below before beginning,
for suggestions related specifically to development. Contact us in our
[*forum*](https://daos.groups.io/g/daos) for further help with any issues.

### Build Prerequisites

To build DAOS and its dependencies, several software packages must be installed
on the system. This includes scons, libuuid, cmocka, ipmctl, and several other
packages usually available on all the Linux distributions. Moreover, a Go
version of at least 1.13 is required.

A script is provided for each Linux distribution to install the packages required, and the Docker
install process calls out to this script as part of the install process.
Check the [utils/docker](https://../../utils/docker) directory for different Linux distribution
versions.

-    [EL 8](https://../..//utils/scripts/install-el8.sh)
-    [CentOS 7](https://../../utils/scripts/install-centos7.sh)
-    [openSUSE Leap 15](https://../../utils/scripts/install-leap15.sh)
-    [Ubuntu 20.04](https://../../utils/scripts/install-ubuntu-20.sh)


Some DAOS tests use MPI. The DAOS build process uses the environment modules
package to detect the presence of MPI. If none is found, the build will skip
building those tests.

In addition some python packages are required, which can be installed via the Linux distribution
or installed by [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) after the source code is available.

### DAOS Source Code

The DAOS repository is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/daos-stack/daos).

To checkout the latest development version, simply run:

```bash
$ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git
```

This command clones the DAOS git repository (path referred as ${daospath}
below) and initializes all the submodules automatically.

### Building DAOS & Dependencies

Once the source code is checked out then you can use this to install the python requirements, this
can be done via a python [virtual environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/) or installed system wide.

To install a virtual environment for building DAOS use the following commands, this will only need
to be done once, for a new shell only the `source venv/bin/activate` command will be required.
Alternatively the packages can be installed via pip as root which will install onto PATH, or as
the user outside of a virtual environment, in which case `~/.local/bin` will need to be added to
PATH.
```bash
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ python3 -m pip install -f requirements.txt
```

If all the software dependencies listed previously are already satisfied, then
type the following command in the top source directory to build the DAOS stack:

```bash
$ scons-3 --config=force install
```

If you are a developer of DAOS, we recommend following the instructions in the
[DAOS for Development](https://docs.daos.io/v2.2/dev/development/#building-daos-for-development)
section.

Otherwise, the missing dependencies can be built automatically by invoking scons
with the following parameters:

```bash
$ scons-3 --config=force --build-deps=yes install
```

By default, DAOS and its dependencies are installed under ${daospath}/install.
The installation path can be modified by adding the PREFIX= option to the above
command line (e.g., PREFIX=/usr/local).

!!! note
    Several parameters can be set (e.g., COMPILER=clang or COMPILER=icc) on the
    scons command line. Please see `scons --help` for all the possible options.
    Those options are also saved for future compilations.

### Environment setup

Once built, the environment must be modified to search for binaries and header
files in the installation path. This step is not required if standard locations
(e.g. /bin, /sbin, /usr/lib, ...) are used.

```bash
$ export CPATH=${daospath}/install/include/:$CPATH
$ export PATH=${daospath}/install/bin/:${daospath}/install/sbin:$PATH
```

If using bash, PATH can be set up for you after a build by sourcing the script
utils/sl/setup\_local.sh from the daos root. This script utilizes a file
generated by the build to determine the location of daos and its dependencies.

If required, ${daospath}/install must be replaced with the alternative path
specified through PREFIX.

## DAOS in Docker

This section describes how to build and run the DAOS service in a Docker
container. A minimum of 5GB of DRAM and 16GB of disk space will be required.
On Mac, please make sure that the Docker settings under
"Preferences/{Disk, Memory}" are configured accordingly.

### Building a Docker Image

To build the Docker image directly from GitHub, run the following command:

```bash
$ docker build https://github.com/daos-stack/daos.git#master \
        -f utils/docker/Dockerfile.centos.7 -t daos
```

or from a local tree:

```bash
$ docker build  . -f utils/docker/Dockerfile.centos.7 -t daos
```

This creates a CentOS 7 image, fetches the latest DAOS version from GitHub,
builds it, and installs it in the image.
For Ubuntu and other Linux distributions, replace Dockerfile.centos.7 with
Dockerfile.ubuntu.20.04 and the appropriate version of interest.

### Simple Docker Setup

Once the image created, one can start a container that will eventually run
the DAOS service:

```bash
$ docker run -it -d --privileged --cap-add=ALL --name server -v /dev:/dev daos
```

!!! note
    If you want to be more selective with the devices that are exported to the
    container, individual devices should be listed and exported as volume via
    the -v option. In this case, the hugepages devices should also be added
    to the command line via -v /dev/hugepages:/dev/hugepages and
    -v /dev/hugepages-1G:/dev/hugepages-1G

!!! warning
    If Docker is being run on a non-Linux system (e.g., OSX), -v /dev:/dev
    should be removed from the command line.

The `daos_server_local.yml` configuration file sets up a simple local DAOS
system with a single server instance running in the container. By default, it
uses 4GB of DRAM to emulate persistent memory and 16GB of bulk storage under
/tmp. The storage size can be changed in the yaml file if necessary.

The DAOS service can be started in the docker container as follows:

```bash
$ docker exec server daos_server start \
        -o /home/daos/daos/utils/config/examples/daos_server_local.yml
```

!!! note
    Please make sure that the uio_pci_generic module is loaded on the host.

Once started, the DAOS server waits for the administrator to format the system.
This can be triggered in a different shell, using the following command:

```bash
$ docker exec server dmg -i storage format
```

Upon successful completion of the format, the storage engine is started, and pools
can be created using the daos admin tool (see next section).

For more advanced configurations involving SCM, SSD or a real fabric, please
refer to the next section.
